The Horror of the Heights

The idea that the extraordinary narrative which has been called the Joyce-Armstrong Fragment is an elaborate(精心計劃) practical joke evolved(（使）逐步發展) by some unknown person, cursed(被詛咒的) by a perverted(變態的) and sinister(邪惡的) sense of humour, has now been abandoned(遺棄) by all who have examined the matter. The most macabre(可怕的) and imaginative of plotters(陰謀者) would hesitate(猶豫) before linking his morbid fancies with the unquestioned and tragic facts which reinforce(進一步證實) the statement.  Though the assertions(斷言) contained in it are amazing and even monstrous(駭人聽聞的), it is none the less forcing itself upon the general intelligence that they are true, and that we must readjust(調整) our ideas to the new situation.  This world of ours appears to be separated by a slight and precarious(危險的) margin of safety from a most singular and unexpected danger.  I will endeavour(嘗試) in this narrative(記敘文), which reproduces the original document in its necessarily somewhat fragmentary(零星的) form, to lay before the reader the whole of the facts up to date, prefacing(序言) my statement by saying that, if there be any who doubt the narrative of Joyce-Armstrong, there can be no question at all as to the facts concerning Lieutenant Myrtle, R. N., and Mr. Hay Connor, who undoubtedly met their end in the manner described.

The Joyce-Armstrong Fragment was found in the field which is called Lower Haycock, lying one mile to the westward of the village of Withyham, upon the Kent and Sussex border.  It was on the 15th September last that an agricultural(農業的) labourer, James Flynn, in the employment of Mathew Dodd, farmer, of the Chauntry Farm, Withyham, perceived(察覺) a briar(野玫瑰叢) pipe lying near the footpath which skirts(位於…的邊緣) the hedge(樹籬) in Lower Haycock.  A few paces farther(較遠) on he picked up a pair of broken binocular(雙筒望遠鏡) glasses.  Finally, among some nettles(蕁麻) in the ditch(溝渠), he caught sight of a flat, canvas-backed book, which proved to be a note-book with detachable(可拆下的) leaves, some of which had come loose and were fluttering(飄動) along the base of the hedge.  These he collected, but some, including the first, were never recovered, and leave a deplorable(非常糟糕的) hiatus(間隙) in this all-important statement.  The note-book was taken by the labourer to his master, who in turn showed it to Dr. J. H. Atherton, of Hartfield.  This gentleman at once recognized the need for an expert(專家) examination, and the manuscript(原稿) was forwarded to the Aero Club in London, where it now lies.

The first two pages of the manuscript are missing.  There is also one torn away at the end of the narrative, though none of these affect the general coherence(連貫性) of the story.  It is conjectured(猜測) that the missing opening is concerned with the record of Mr. Joyce-Armstrong's qualifications(資格證明) as an aeronaut, which can be gathered from other sources and are admitted to be unsurpassed(不可超越的) among the air-pilots of England.  For many years he has been looked upon as among the most daring(大膽的) and the most intellectual(智力的) of flying men, a combination which has enabled him to both invent and test several new devices, including the common gyroscopic attachment which is known by his name.  The main body of the manuscript is written neatly in ink(墨水), but the last few lines are in pencil and are so ragged(沒有章法的) as to be hardly legible--exactly, in fact, as they might be expected to appear if they were scribbled(匆匆地寫) off hurriedly(倉促地) from the seat of a moving aeroplane.  There are, it may be added, several stains(沾汙), both on the last page and on the outside cover which have been pronounced(宣稱) by the Home Office experts to be blood--probably human and certainly mammalian.  The fact that something closely resembling(像) the organism of malaria(瘧疾) was discovered in this blood, and that Joyce-Armstrong is known to have suffered from intermittent fever, is a remarkable example of the new weapons which modern science has placed in the hands of our detectives(偵探).

And now a word as to the personality(個性) of the author of this epoch-making statement.  Joyce-Armstrong, according to the few friends who really knew something of the man, was a poet(詩人) and a dreamer(幻想家), as well as a mechanic and an inventor(發明家).  He was a man of considerable(相當多的) wealth, much of which he had spent in the pursuit(嗜好) of his aeronautical(航空學) hobby.  He had four private aeroplanes in his hangars near Devizes, and is said to have made no fewer than one hundred and seventy ascents(上升) in the course of last year.  He was a retiring man with dark moods(心境), in which he would avoid the society(交往) of his fellows.  Captain Dangerfield, who knew him better than anyone, says that there were times when his eccentricity(古怪行為) threatened to develop into something more serious.  His habit of carrying a shot-gun with him in his aeroplane was one manifestation(顯示) of it.

Another was the morbid(著迷的) effect which the fall of Lieutenant Myrtle had upon his mind.  Myrtle, who was attempting(企圖) the height record, fell from an altitude of something over thirty thousand feet.  Horrible(可怕的) to narrate, his head was entirely obliterated(徹底毀掉), though his body and limbs(肢；臂；腳) preserved(保存) their configuration.  At every gathering of airmen, Joyce-Armstrong, according to Dangerfield, would ask, with an enigmatic(神秘的) smile:  "And where, pray(請), is Myrtle's head?"

On another occasion after dinner, at the mess(食堂) of the Flying School on Salisbury Plain, he started a debate(爭論) as to what will be the most permanent(永恆的) danger which airmen will have to encounter(偶然相遇). Having listened to successive opinions as to air-pockets, faulty construction, and over-banking, he ended by shrugging(（聳（肩）) his shoulders and refusing to put forward his own views, though he gave the impression that they differed from any advanced(提出) by his companions.

It is worth remarking that after his own complete disappearance it was found that his private affairs were arranged with a precision(精確) which may show that he had a strong premonition(預兆) of disaster(大禍).  With these essential(必要的) explanations I will now give the narrative exactly as it stands, beginning at page three of the blood-soaked note-book:

"Nevertheless(儘管如此), when I dined(吃晚飯) at Rheims with Coselli and Gustav Raymond I found that neither of them was aware of any particular danger in the higher layers of the atmosphere(大氣).  I did not actually say what was in my thoughts, but I got so near to it that if they had any corresponding idea they could not have failed to express it.  But then they are two empty, vainglorious(虛榮心強的) fellows with no thought beyond seeing their silly(愚蠢的) names in the newspaper.  It is interesting to note that neither of them had ever been much beyond the twenty-thousand-foot level.  Of course, men have been higher than this both in balloons and in the ascent of mountains.  It must be well above that point that the aeroplane enters the danger zone--always presuming(假設) that my premonitions are correct.

"Aeroplaning has been with us now for more than twenty years, and one might well ask:  Why should this peril(險境) be only revealing(透露內情的) itself in our day?  The answer is obvious(明顯的).  In the old days of weak engines, when a hundred horse-power Gnome or Green was considered ample(足夠的) for every need, the flights were very restricted(限制的).  Now that three hundred horse-power is the rule rather than the exception, visits to the upper layers have become easier and more common. Some of us can remember how, in our youth, Garros made a world-wide reputation(聲望) by attaining(實現) nineteen thousand feet, and it was considered a remarkable(非凡的) achievement to fly over the Alps.  Our standard now has been immeasurably(不可估量的) raised, and there are twenty high flights for one in former years.  Many of them have been undertaken with impunity(無恙地). The thirty-thousand-foot level has been reached time after time with no discomfort(不適) beyond cold and asthma(氣喘).  What does this prove?  A visitor might descend upon this planet a thousand times and never see a tiger.  Yet tigers exist, and if he chanced to come down into a jungle(熱帶叢林) he might be devoured(吞食).  There are jungles of the upper air, and there are worse things than tigers which inhabit(居住於) them.  I believe in time they will map these jungles accurately out.  Even at the present moment I could name two of them.  One of them lies over the Pau-Biarritz district of France. Another is just over my head as I write here in my house in Wiltshire.  I rather think there is a third in the Homburg-Wiesbaden district.

"It was the disappearance(失蹤) of the airmen that first set me thinking.  Of course, everyone said that they had fallen into the sea, but that did not satisfy(使滿足) me at all.  First, there was Verrier in France; his machine was found near Bayonne, but they never got his body.  There was the case of Baxter also, who vanished(消失的), though his engine and some of the iron fixings were found in a wood in Leicestershire.  In that case, Dr.  Middleton, of Amesbury, who was watching the flight with a telescope(望遠鏡), declares(宣佈) that just before the clouds obscured(遮掩) the view he saw the machine, which was at an enormous(巨大的) height, suddenly rise perpendicularly(垂直的) upwards in a succession(一連串) of jerks(急拉) in a manner that he would have thought to be impossible.  That was the last seen of Baxter.  There was a correspondence(信函）) in the papers, but it never led to anything.  There were several other similar cases, and then there was the death of Hay Connor.  What a cackle(嘎嘎大笑) there was about an unsolved mystery of the air, and what columns in the halfpenny(微不足道的) papers, and yet how little was ever done to get to the bottom of the business!  He came down in a tremendous(巨大的) vol-plane from an unknown height.  He never got off his machine and died in his pilot's seat.  Died of what? 'Heart disease,' said the doctors.  Rubbish(廢物)!  Hay Connor's heart was as sound as mine is.  What did Venables say?  Venables was the only man who was at his side when he died.  He said that he was shivering(發抖) and looked like a man who had been badly scared.  'Died of fright(恐懼),' said Venables, but could not imagine what he was frightened about.  Only said one word to Venables, which sounded like 'Monstrous.'  They could make nothing of that at the inquest(死因審理). But I could make something of it.  Monsters!  That was the last word of poor Harry Hay Connor.  And he DID die of fright, just as Venables thought.

"And then there was Myrtle's head.  Do you really believe--does anybody really believe--that a man's head could be driven clean into his body by the force of a fall?  Well, perhaps it may be possible, but I, for one, have never believed that it was so with Myrtle.  And the grease(油膩狀物) upon his clothes--'all slimy(黏糊糊的) with grease,' said somebody at the inquest.  Queer(奇怪的) that nobody got thinking after that!  I did--but, then, I had been thinking for a good long time. I've made three ascents--how Dangerfield used to chaff(戲弄) me about my shot-gun--but I've never been high enough.  Now, with this new, light Paul Veroner machine and its one hundred and seventy-five Robur, I should easily touch the thirty thousand tomorrow.  I'll have a shot at the record.  Maybe I shall have a shot at something else as well.  Of course, it's dangerous.  If a fellow(傢伙) wants to avoid(避開) danger he had best keep out of flying altogether and subside(趨於平緩) finally into flannel(法蘭絨) slippers(拖鞋) and a dressing-gown.  But I'll visit the air-jungle tomorrow--and if there's anything there I shall know it.  If I return, I'll find myself a bit of a celebrity(明星).  If I don't this note-book may explain what I am trying to do, and how I lost my life in doing it.  But no drivel(廢話) about accidents or mysteries, if YOU please.

"I chose my Paul Veroner monoplane(單翼機) for the job.  There's nothing like a monoplane when real work is to be done. Beaumont found that out in very early days.  For one thing it doesn't mind damp(潮濕的), and the weather looks as if we should be in the clouds all the time.  It's a bonny(美麗健康的) little model and answers my hand like a tender-mouthed horse.  The engine is a ten-cylinder rotary Robur working up to one hundred and seventy-five.  It has all the modern improvements--enclosed fuselage(飛機機身), high-curved landing skids(降落滑撬), brakes(制動器), gyroscopic(陀螺儀) steadiers(固定支架), and three speeds, worked by an alteration(變化) of the angle of the planes upon the Venetian-blind principle.  I took a shot-gun with me and a dozen(一打) cartridges(子彈) filled with buck-shot.  You should have seen the face of Perkins, my old mechanic(機械師), when I directed him to put them in.  I was dressed like an Arctic explorer, with two jerseys(針織緊身襯衣) under my overalls(工作服), thick socks inside my padded(有襯墊的) boots, a storm-cap with flaps, and my talc(爽身粉) goggles(護目鏡).  It was stifling(悶熱的) outside the hangars(飛機庫), but I was going for the summit(頂峰) of the Himalayas, and had to dress for the part. Perkins knew there was something on and implored(懇求) me to take him with me.  Perhaps I should if I were using the biplane(雙翼飛機), but a monoplane is a one-man show--if you want to get the last foot of life out of it.  Of course, I took an oxygen(氧氣) bag; the man who goes for the altitude(海拔高度) record without one will either be frozen or smothered--or both.

"I had a good look at the planes, the rudder-bar, and the elevating lever(操縱杆) before I got in.  Everything was in order so far as I could see.  Then I switched on my engine and found that she was running sweetly.  When they let her go she rose almost at once upon the lowest speed.  I circled(盤旋) my home field once or twice just to warm her up, and then with a wave to Perkins and the others, I flattened(把…弄平) out my planes and put her on her highest.  She skimmed(掠過) like a swallow(燕子) down wind for eight or ten miles until I turned her nose up a little and she began to climb in a great spiral(螺旋形) for the cloud-bank above me.  It's all-important to rise slowly and adapt(適應) yourself to the pressure as you go.

"It was a close, warm day for an English September, and there was the hush(寂靜) and heaviness of impending(即將發生的) rain.  Now and then there came sudden puffs(一小股（空氣）) of wind from the south-west--one of them so gusty(一陣陣勁吹的) and unexpected that it caught me napping and turned me half-round for an instant.  I remember the time when gusts and whirls and air-pockets used to be things of danger--before we learned to put an overmastering power into our engines.  Just as I reached the cloud-banks, with the altimeter(測高儀) marking three thousand, down came the rain.  My word, how it poured! It drummed(敲打) upon my wings and lashed(猛擊) against my face, blurring(使不明顯) my glasses so that I could hardly see.  I got down on to a low speed, for it was painful to travel against it.  As I got higher it became hail(冰雹), and I had to turn tail to it.  One of my cylinders was out of action--a dirty plug, I should imagine, but still I was rising steadily with plenty of power.  After a bit the trouble passed, whatever it was, and I heard the full, deep-throated purr--the ten singing as one.  That's where the beauty of our modern silencers(消音器) comes in.  We can at last control our engines by ear.  How they squeal(尖叫) and squeak(吱吱叫) and sob(抽噎) when they are in trouble!  All those cries for help were wasted in the old days, when every sound was swallowed up by the monstrous racket(喧嘩) of the machine.  If only the early aviators(飛行員) could come back to see the beauty and perfection(完美) of the mechanism(機械裝置) which have been bought at the cost of their lives!

"About nine-thirty I was nearing the clouds.  Down below me, all blurred and shadowed with rain, lay the vast(廣大的) expanse(廣闊區域) of Salisbury Plain.  Half a dozen flying machines were doing hackwork at the thousand-foot level, looking like little black swallows against the green background.  I dare say they were wondering what I was doing up in cloud-land.  Suddenly a grey curtain(幕狀物) drew across beneath(在……之下) me and the wet folds(折疊) of vapours(霧氣) were swirling round my face.  It was clammily(濕冷地) cold and miserable(令人難受的).  But I was above the hail-storm, and that was something gained.  The cloud was as dark and thick as a London fog.  In my anxiety(焦慮) to get clear, I cocked(翹起) her nose up until the automatic alarm-bell rang, and I actually began to slide(滑行) backwards.  My sopped(濕透的) and dripping wings had made me heavier than I thought, but presently I was in lighter cloud, and soon had cleared the first layer.  There was a second--opal-coloured and fleecy--at a great height above my head, a white, unbroken ceiling above, and a dark, unbroken floor below, with the monoplane labouring upwards upon a vast spiral between them.  It is deadly lonely(孤獨的) in these cloud-spaces.  Once a great flight of some small water-birds went past me, flying very fast to the westwards. The quick whir of their wings and their musical cry were cheery(令人愉快的) to my ear.  I fancy(認為) that they were teal(小野鴨), but I am a wretched(素質差的) zoologist(動物學家).  Now that we humans have become birds we must really learn to know our brethren(兄弟們) by sight.

"The wind down beneath(在下) me whirled(旋轉) and swayed(擺動) the broad cloud-plain.  Once a great eddy(起漩渦) formed in it, a whirlpool of vapour, and through it, as down a funnel(漏斗), I caught sight of the distant world. A large white biplane was passing at a vast depth beneath me.  I fancy it was the morning mail service betwixt(在中間) Bristol and London. Then the drift swirled inwards again and the great solitude(獨處) was unbroken.

"Just after ten I touched the lower edge of the upper cloud-stratum. It consisted of fine diaphanous(又透又薄的) vapour drifting(漂移) swiftly(迅速地) from the westwards.  The wind had been steadily rising all this time and it was now blowing a sharp breeze--twenty-eight an hour by my gauge(測量).  Already it was very cold, though my altimeter only marked nine thousand.  The engines were working beautifully, and we went droning(轟鳴聲) steadily upwards.  The cloud-bank was thicker than I had expected, but at last it thinned out into a golden mist before me, and then in an instant I had shot out from it, and there was an unclouded sky and a brilliant sun above my head--all blue and gold above, all shining silver below, one vast, glimmering(隱約閃爍) plain as far as my eyes could reach.  It was a quarter past ten o'clock, and the barograph needle pointed to twelve thousand eight hundred.  Up I went and up, my ears concentrated upon the deep purring of my motor, my eyes busy always with the watch, the revolution indicator, the petrol(汽油) lever, and the oil pump.  No wonder aviators are said to be a fearless race.  With so many things to think of there is no time to trouble about oneself.  About this time I noted how unreliable is the compass when above a certain height from earth.  At fifteen thousand feet mine was pointing east and a point south.  The sun and the wind gave me my true bearings(方位).

"I had hoped to reach an eternal stillness(靜止的) in these high altitudes, but with every thousand feet of ascent the gale(大風) grew stronger.  My machine groaned(呻吟聲) and trembled(顫抖) in every joint and rivet(鉚釘) as she faced it, and swept away like a sheet of paper when I banked her on the turn, skimming down wind at a greater pace, perhaps, than ever mortal(凡人) man has moved.  Yet I had always to turn again and tack(搶風行駛) up in the wind's eye, for it was not merely(僅僅) a height record that I was after.  By all my calculations it was above little Wiltshire that my air-jungle lay, and all my labour might be lost if I struck the outer layers at some farther point.

"When I reached the nineteen-thousand-foot level, which was about midday, the wind was so severe that I looked with some anxiety to the stays of my wings, expecting momentarily to see them snap(突然折斷) or slacken(鬆開).  I even cast(投；擲；拋) loose the parachute(降落傘) behind me, and fastened(扣緊) its hook into the ring of my leathern(皮革製的) belt, so as to be ready for the worst.  Now was the time when a bit of scamped(小淘氣) work by the mechanic is paid for by the life of the aeronaut(駕駛員).  But she held together bravely.  Every cord and strut(支柱) was humming and vibrating like so many harp-strings, but it was glorious(光榮的) to see how, for all the beating and the buffeting(（風、雨等）打撃), she was still the conqueror(征服者) of Nature and the mistress(女主人) of the sky.  There is surely something divine(神的) in man himself that he should rise so superior to the limitations which Creation seemed to impose--rise, too, by such unselfish, heroic devotion(忠誠) as this air-conquest has shown.  Talk of human degeneration(退化)!  When has such a story as this been written in the annals(歷史記載) of our race?

"These were the thoughts in my head as I climbed that monstrous, inclined plane with the wind sometimes beating in my face and sometimes whistling behind my ears, while the cloud-land beneath me fell away to such a distance that the folds(交疊) and hummocks(小丘) of silver had all smoothed out into one flat, shining plain.  But suddenly I had a horrible(極糟的) and unprecedented(史無前例的) experience.  I have known before what it is to be in what our neighbours have called a tourbillon(紊流), but never on such a scale as this.  That huge, sweeping river of wind of which I have spoken had, as it appears, whirlpools within it which were as monstrous as itself.  Without a moment's warning I was dragged(拉) suddenly into the heart of one.  I spun round for a minute or two with such velocity that I almost lost my senses, and then fell suddenly, left wing foremost, down the vacuum(真空) funnel in the centre.  I dropped like a stone, and lost nearly a thousand feet.  It was only my belt that kept me in my seat, and the shock and breathlessness(上氣不接下氣的) left me hanging half-insensible over the side of the fuselage.  But I am always capable of a supreme effort--it is my one great merit(優點) as an aviator.  I was conscious(意識到) that the descent(下沉) was slower.  The whirlpool was a cone rather than a funnel, and I had come to the apex(頂點).  With a terrific wrench(猛扭), throwing my weight all to one side, I levelled my planes and brought her head away from the wind.  In an instant I had shot out of the eddies and was skimming down the sky.  Then, shaken but victorious, I turned her nose up and began once more my steady grind(苦差事) on the upward spiral.  I took a large sweep to avoid the danger-spot of the whirlpool, and soon I was safely above it. Just after one o'clock I was twenty-one thousand feet above the sea-level.  To my great joy I had topped the gale, and with every hundred feet of ascent the air grew stiller.  On the other hand, it was very cold, and I was conscious of that peculiar(古怪的) nausea(嘔吐感) which goes with rarefaction(稀薄化) of the air.  For the first time I unscrewed(把…頂部旋開) the mouth of my oxygen bag and took an occasional whiff(些許) of the glorious gas.  I could feel it running like a cordial(烈性甜酒) through my veins(靜脈), and I was exhilarated(異常興奮的) almost to the point of drunkenness. I shouted and sang as I soared(驟升) upwards into the cold, still outer world.

"It is very clear to me that the insensibility(失去知覺的) which came upon Glaisher, and in a lesser degree upon Coxwell, when, in 1862, they ascended in a balloon to the height of thirty thousand feet, was due to the extreme speed with which a perpendicular ascent is made. Doing it at an easy gradient and accustoming(適應了的) oneself to the lessened(降低) barometric pressure by slow degrees, there are no such dreadful(可怕的) symptoms(癥狀).  At the same great height I found that even without my oxygen inhaler(吸入器) I could breathe without undue(過度的) distress(憂慮). It was bitterly(苦澀地) cold, however, and my thermometer(溫度計) was at zero, Fahrenheit.  At one-thirty I was nearly seven miles above the surface of the earth, and still ascending steadily.  I found, however, that the rarefied(稀薄的) air was giving markedly less support to my planes, and that my angle of ascent had to be considerably lowered in consequence(後果).  It was already clear that even with my light weight and strong engine-power there was a point in front of me where I should be held.  To make matters worse, one of my sparking-plugs was in trouble again and there was intermittent(間歇的) misfiring(不能正常運行) in the engine.  My heart was heavy with the fear of failure.

"It was about that time that I had a most extraordinary experience.  Something whizzed(颼颼作聲) past me in a trail of smoke and exploded with a loud, hissing sound, sending forth a cloud of steam.  For the instant I could not imagine what had happened. Then I remembered that the earth is for ever being bombarded(連環炮撃) by meteor(流星) stones, and would be hardly inhabitable(適合居住的) were they not in nearly every case turned to vapour in the outer layers of the atmosphere.  Here is a new danger for the high-altitude man, for two others passed me when I was nearing the forty-thousand-foot mark.  I cannot doubt that at the edge of the earth's envelope(外殼) the risk would be a very real one.

"My barograph needle marked forty-one thousand three hundred when I became aware(明白的) that I could go no farther.  Physically, the strain was not as yet greater than I could bear but my machine had reached its limit.  The attenuated(使減少) air gave no firm support to the wings, and the least tilt(傾斜) developed into side-slip, while she seemed sluggish(遲緩的) on her controls.  Possibly, had the engine been at its best, another thousand feet might have been within our capacity, but it was still misfiring(啞火), and two out of the ten cylinders appeared to be out of action.  If I had not already reached the zone for which I was searching then I should never see it upon this journey.  But was it not possible that I had attained it?  Soaring in circles like a monstrous hawk(鷹) upon the forty-thousand-foot level I let the monoplane guide herself, and with my Mannheim glass I made a careful observation of my surroundings. The heavens were perfectly clear; there was no indication of those dangers which I had imagined.

"I have said that I was soaring in circles.  It struck me suddenly that I would do well to take a wider sweep and open up a new airtract.  If the hunter entered an earth-jungle he would drive through it if he wished to find his game.  My reasoning had led me to believe that the air-jungle which I had imagined lay somewhere over Wiltshire.  This should be to the south and west of me.  I took my bearings from the sun, for the compass was hopeless and no trace of earth was to be seen--nothing but the distant, silver cloud-plain.  However, I got my direction as best I might and kept her head straight to the mark.  I reckoned(想) that my petrol supply would not last for more than another hour or so, but I could afford to use it to the last drop, since a single magnificent(宏偉的) vol-plane could at any time take me to the earth.
  
"Suddenly I was aware of something new.  The air in front of me had lost its crystal(水晶玻璃) clearness.  It was full of long, ragged(不整齊的) wisps(一縷煙) of something which I can only compare to very fine cigarette smoke.  It hung about in wreaths(花環) and coils(（捲，圈), turning and twisting slowly in the sunlight.  As the monoplane shot through it, I was aware of a faint taste of oil upon my lips, and there was a greasy scum(浮渣) upon the woodwork of the machine.  Some infinitely fine organic matter appeared to be suspended(懸浮) in the atmosphere.  There was no life there.  It was inchoate(不完全的) and diffuse, extending for many square acres and then fringing(邊緣) off into the void.  No, it was not life.  But might it not be the remains of life?  Above all, might it not be the food of life, of monstrous life, even as the humble grease of the ocean is the food for the mighty whale?  The thought was in my mind when my eyes looked upwards and I saw the most wonderful vision that ever man has seen. Can I hope to convey(表達）) it to you even as I saw it myself last Thursday?

"Conceive(構想) a jelly-fish such as sails in our summer seas, bell-shaped and of enormous size--far larger, I should judge, than the dome(穹頂) of St.  Paul's.  It was of a light pink(粉紅色的) colour veined(有靜脈的) with a delicate(脆弱的) green, but the whole huge fabric so tenuous(單薄的) that it was but a fairy(小仙子) outline against the dark blue sky.  It pulsated(有規律地振動) with a delicate(精密的) and regular rhythm(節奏).  From it there depended two long, drooping(下垂), green tentacles(觸角), which swayed slowly backwards and forwards.  This gorgeous vision passed gently with noiseless dignity(莊重) over my head, as light and fragile(脆弱的) as a soap-bubble, and drifted upon its stately(有威嚴的) way.

"I had half-turned my monoplane, that I might look after this beautiful creature, when, in a moment, I found myself amidst(在…當中) a perfect fleet(船隊) of them, of all sizes, but none so large as the first.  Some were quite small, but the majority about as big as an average balloon, and with much the same curvature(曲度) at the top. There was in them a delicacy of texture and colouring which reminded me of the finest Venetian glass.  Pale(暗淡的) shades of pink and green were the prevailing(盛行的) tints(淡淡的色澤), but all had a lovely iridescence(色彩斑斕的) where the sun shimmered through their dainty(小巧玲瓏的) forms.  Some hundreds of them drifted past me, a wonderful fairy squadron(中隊) of strange unknown argosies(大商船隊) of the sky--creatures whose forms and substance were so attuned(調適於) to these pure heights that one could not conceive anything so delicate within actual sight or sound of earth.

"But soon my attention was drawn to a new phenomenon--the serpents(蛇) of the outer air.  These were long, thin, fantastic coils of vapour-like material, which turned and twisted with great speed, flying round and round at such a pace that the eyes could hardly follow them.  Some of these ghost-like creatures were twenty or thirty feet long, but it was difficult to tell their girth(腰圍), for their outline was so hazy(模糊的) that it seemed to fade away into the air around them.  These air-snakes were of a very light grey or smoke colour, with some darker lines within, which gave the impression of a definite organism.  One of them whisked(快速帶走) past my very face, and I was conscious of a cold, clammy contact, but their composition was so unsubstantial that I could not connect them with any thought of physical danger, any more than the beautiful bell-like creatures which had preceded them.  There was no more solidity in their frames than in the floating spume(泡沫) from a broken wave.

"But a more terrible(可怖的) experience was in store for me.  Floating downwards from a great height there came a purplish patch of vapour, small as I saw it first, but rapidly enlarging(擴大) as it approached me, until it appeared to be hundreds of square feet in size.  Though fashioned of some transparent, jelly-like substance, it was none the less of much more definite outline and solid consistence(黏稠性) than anything which I had seen before.  There were more traces, too, of a physical organization, especially two vast, shadowy(幽暗的), circular plates upon either side, which may have been eyes, and a perfectly solid white projection between them which was as curved and cruel as the beak(嘴，喙) of a vulture(禿鷲).

"The whole aspect of this monster was formidable(可怕的) and threatening, and it kept changing its colour from a very light mauve(淡紫色) to a dark, angry purple so thick that it cast(投) a shadow as it drifted between my monoplane and the sun.  On the upper curve of its huge body there were three great projections(隆起物) which I can only describe as enormous bubbles, and I was convinced as I looked at them that they were charged with some extremely light gas which served to buoy(使浮起) up the misshapen(畸形的) and semi-solid mass in the rarefied air.  The creature moved swiftly along, keeping pace easily with the monoplane, and for twenty miles or more it formed my horrible escort(陪侍者), hovering(盤旋) over me like a bird of prey(獵物) which is waiting to pounce(猛撲).  Its method of progression--done so swiftly that it was not easy to follow--was to throw out a long, glutinous(膠質的) streamer in front of it, which in turn seemed to draw forward the rest of the writhing(扭曲) body.  So elastic and gelatinous(膠狀的) was it that never for two successive minutes was it the same shape, and yet each change made it more threatening and loathsome(噁心的) than the last.

"I knew that it meant mischief(危害).  Every purple flush of its hideous(極醜的) body told me so.  The vague(模糊不清的), goggling eyes which were turned always upon me were cold and merciless in their viscid(半流體的) hatred(敵意).  I dipped the nose of my monoplane downwards to escape it. As I did so, as quick as a flash there shot out a long tentacle from this mass of floating blubber(贅肉), and it fell as light and sinuous(彎曲的) as a whip-lash across the front of my machine.  There was a loud hiss as it lay for a moment across the hot engine, and it whisked itself into the air again, while the huge, flat body drew itself together as if in sudden pain.  I dipped to a vol-pique, but again a tentacle fell over the monoplane and was shorn off by the propeller as easily as it might have cut through a smoke wreath. A long, gliding, sticky, serpent-like coil came from behind and caught me round the waist, dragging me out of the fuselage.  I tore at it, my fingers sinking into the smooth, glue-like surface, and for an instant I disengaged(鬆開) myself, but only to be caught round the boot by another coil, which gave me a jerk that tilted me almost on to my back.

"As I fell over I blazed(猛烈的掃射) off both barrels of my gun, though, indeed, it was like attacking an elephant with a pea-shooter to imagine that any human weapon could cripple(嚴重損壞) that mighty bulk(巨大的東西).  And yet I aimed better than I knew, for, with a loud report, one of the great blisters(氣泡) upon the creature's back exploded with the puncture(刺穿) of the buck-shot.  It was very clear that my conjecture was right, and that these vast, clear bladders were distended(鼓起) with some lifting gas, for in an instant the huge, cloud-like body turned sideways, writhing desperately(非常) to find its balance, while the white beak snapped and gaped(張開) in horrible fury(狂怒).  But already I had shot away on the steepest glide(滑行) that I dared to attempt, my engine still full on, the flying propeller and the force of gravity shooting me downwards like an aerolite.  Far behind me I saw a dull, purplish smudge(污痕) growing swiftly smaller and merging into the blue sky behind it.  I was safe out of the deadly jungle of the outer air.

"Once out of danger I throttled(使窒息) my engine, for nothing tears a machine to pieces quicker than running on full power from a height. It was a glorious, spiral vol-plane from nearly eight miles of altitude--first, to the level of the silver cloud-bank, then to that of the storm-cloud beneath it, and finally, in beating rain, to the surface of the earth.  I saw the Bristol Channel beneath me as I broke from the clouds, but, having still some petrol in my tank, I got twenty miles inland before I found myself stranded(滯留的) in a field half a mile from the village of Ashcombe.  There I got three tins of petrol from a passing motor-car, and at ten minutes past six that evening I alighted(降落) gently in my own home meadow(草地) at Devizes, after such a journey as no mortal(人) upon earth has ever yet taken and lived to tell the tale.  I have seen the beauty and I have seen the horror of the heights--and greater beauty or greater horror than that is not within the ken(知識範圍之外) of man.

"And now it is my plan to go once again before I give my results to the world.  My reason for this is that I must surely have something to show by way of proof before I lay such a tale before my fellow-men.  It is true that others will soon follow and will confirm what I have said, and yet I should wish to carry conviction(堅定的信念) from the first.  Those lovely iridescent bubbles of the air should not be hard to capture.  They drift slowly upon their way, and the swift monoplane could intercept(攔截) their leisurely(悠閒的) course.  It is likely enough that they would dissolve in the heavier layers of the atmosphere, and that some small heap of amorphous(不定形的) jelly might be all that I should bring to earth with me. And yet something there would surely be by which I could substantiate(證實) my story.  Yes, I will go, even if I run a risk by doing so.  These purple horrors would not seem to be numerous.  It is probable that I shall not see one.  If I do I shall dive at once.  At the worst there is always the shot-gun and my knowledge of ..."


Here a page of the manuscript is unfortunately missing.  On the next page is written, in large, straggling(四散) writing:


"Forty-three thousand feet.  I shall never see earth again. They are beneath me, three of them.  God help me; it is a dreadful death to die!"


Such in its entirety(整個) is the Joyce-Armstrong Statement.  Of the man nothing has since been seen.  Pieces of his shattered(破碎的) monoplane have been picked up in the preserves(保護區) of Mr. Budd-Lushington upon the borders of Kent and Sussex, within a few miles of the spot where the note-book was discovered.  If the unfortunate aviator's theory is correct that this air-jungle, as he called it, existed only over the south-west of England, then it would seem that he had fled from it at the full speed of his monoplane, but had been overtaken and devoured by these horrible creatures at some spot in the outer atmosphere above the place where the grim(恐怖的) relics(遺物) were found.  The picture of that monoplane skimming down the sky, with the nameless terrors flying as swiftly beneath it and cutting it off always from the earth while they gradually closed in upon their victim, is one upon which a man who valued his sanity would prefer not to dwell(思索,).  There are many, as I am aware, who still jeer(嘲弄) at the facts which I have here set down, but even they must admit(承認) that Joyce-Armstrong has disappeared, and I would commend(把……委託（給）) to them his own words:  "This note-book may explain what I am trying to do, and how I lost my life in doing it.  But no drivel about accidents or mysteries, if YOU please."


abandoned 離棄；放棄；拋棄；遺棄 
accustoming 習慣的；適應了的 
adapt 適應，適合 
admit （尤指不情願地）承認，供認，招認 
advanced 提出（想法或理論） 
aeronaut 氣球（或飛船）駕駛員 
aeronautical 航空學 
agricultural 農業的 
alighted 降落，飛落 
alteration （通常指輕微地）改動，修改；改變，（使）變化 
altimeter （用於飛行器的）測高儀，高度表 
altitude 海拔，海拔高度 
amidst 在…中間，在…當中；為…環繞 
amorphous 無固定形狀的；不定形的 
ample 足夠的，充足的，充裕的 
annals 歷史記載；歷史；編年史；年鑑 
anxiety 焦慮，不安，擔心 
apex 頂點；最高點 
argosies 【詩】大船，大商船隊 
ascents 上升；攀登 
assertions 斷言；明確肯定 
asthma 氣喘，哮喘 
atmosphere 大氣 
attaining 實現；獲得；贏得 
attempting 試圖；企圖；試圖做 
attenuated 使減少；使減弱；使降低 
attuned 調適於 
aviators 飛行員 
avoid 避開；避免，防止；逃避 
aware 意識到的；明白的；知道的 
beak （鳥類的）嘴，喙 
bearings 方位，方向；方向感 舉止，風度；體態 
beneath 在……之下；向……下面 在下；向下 
betwixt 在中間；模棱兩可；非此非彼；猶豫不決 
binocular 雙筒望遠鏡 
biplane 雙翼飛機 
bitterly 苦澀地；痛苦地；不痛快地 
bladders 囊狀物 膀胱 
blazed （槍）猛烈的掃射 
blisters 水泡；氣泡 
blubber （人身上的）贅肉 
blurring 使…的區別不明顯；使難以瞭解…的真相 
bombarded 連環炮撃，轟炸 
bonny 美麗健康的 
brakes 刹車；閘，制動器 
breathlessness 氣喘吁吁的，上氣不接下氣的 
brethren （用於稱呼組織或宗教團體的成員）兄弟們 
briar 野玫瑰叢 
buffeting （風、雨等）連續猛撃，打撃 
bulk 巨大的東西；大塊，大團 
buoy 使浮起 
cackle 嘎嘎大笑 
cartridges 彈藥筒；子彈；炸藥包 
cast 投，擲，拋，扔，撒 投；擲；拋 
celebrity （尤指娛樂界的）名人，明星；名流 
chaff 戲弄，逗弄 
cheery 明快的；歡快的；令人愉快的 
circled 圓；圓圈；圓形 盤旋；環行；繞…轉圈 
clammily 發黏地；濕冷地 
cocked 豎起，翹起，歪著 
coherence 連貫性，一致性 
coils （繩索、頭髮或電線的）捲，圈，盤 
commend 把……委託（給） 
conceive 想像；想出；構想 
conjectured 推測，猜測；推測的結果 
conqueror 征服者；勝利者 
conscious 意識到；察覺到；感覺到 
consequence （常指不好或不利的）結果，後果 
considerable 相當大的；相當多的 
consistence （尤指黏稠液體的）黏稠度，黏稠性 
convey 表達，傳達（思想、感情或想法） 
conviction 堅定的看法；堅定的信念；堅定的信仰 
cordial 烈性甜酒 
correspondence 信件，信函（尤指公函或商業信函） 
cripple 嚴重損壞；嚴重削弱 
crystal 水晶玻璃 
cursed 被詛咒的 
curtain 簾狀物，幕狀物 
curvature 彎曲；曲率，曲度 
dainty 小巧玲瓏的，嬌小的，小巧精美的 
damp 潮濕的，濕淋淋的 
daring 大膽的，勇敢的；敢於冒險的 
debate 談論，討論；爭論，辯論 
declares 宣佈；聲明；公佈 
degeneration 惡化；衰退；退化 
delicate 精細的，精密的 脆弱的；嬌嫩的 
deplorable 非常糟糕的，極其惡劣的 
descent 下降，下落；下沉 
desperately 非常；極其 
detachable 可拆下的；可分離的，可分開的 
detectives 偵探；私家偵探 
devotion 忠誠，忠實；摯愛 
devoured 狼吞虎嚥，吞食 
diaphanous （尤指布料）又透又薄的，薄如蟬翼的 
dignity 莊重，端莊；尊嚴 
dined 吃正餐；吃晚飯 
disappearance 消失，失蹤 
disaster 災難，大禍 
discomfort 不適，不安；令人不適（或不安）的事物 
disengaged 鬆開（離合器） 
distended （通常指腹部或身體其他部位）鼓起，隆起，凸起 
distress 憂慮；悲傷；痛苦 
ditch （尤指路邊或田邊用來供水、排水或劃分土地的）溝渠，壕溝 
divine 神的；像神一樣的 
dome 穹頂；穹頂建築 
dozen 十二個，一打 
dragged 拖，拉，拽，牽引 
dreadful 可怕的；糟糕的；驚人的 
dreamer 幻想家，空想家 
drifting （尤指在外力作用下）飄，漂流，漂移 
drivel 胡說，瞎扯，廢話 
droning 轟鳴聲，嗡嗡聲 
drooping 下垂，下彎 
drummed （使）敲擊，（使）敲打 
dwell 思索, 
eccentricity 古怪行為；反常行為 
eddy （水、風、煙等）起漩渦，旋轉 
elaborate 精心計劃（或製作）的；詳盡的；複雜的 
encounter 偶然相遇，邂逅，不期而遇 
endeavour 嘗試；努力 
enigmatic 費解的；難以捉摸的；神秘的 
enlarging （使）增大；（使）擴大；（使）擴充 
enormous 極大的；巨大的；龐大的 
entirety 作爲一個整體；整個；全面地 
envelope 外殼，殼層 
escort 陪侍者；護衛者；護送者 
essential 必要的，必不可少的 
evolved （使）逐步發展；（使）逐步演變；（使）逐漸形成；（使）進化 
exhilarated 異常興奮的；興高采烈的；心花怒放的 
expanse （陸地、水面或天空的）廣闊區域 
expert 專家；能手；熟練者 
fairy 小仙子，小精靈 
fancy 想像；認為 想要；想做 
farther 更遠；較遠 
fastened 扣緊；繫牢；紮好；關緊 
fellow 【口】男人；傢伙；人 
flannel 法蘭絨 
flattened （使）變平；把…弄平 
fleet 船隊；（一國的）全部艦隊，海軍 
fluttering （使）飄動，揮動，顫動；拍（翅）；鼓（翼） 
folds 折疊，對折（尤指紙或布）；可折疊；可對折 盤起，交疊 
formidable 可怕的；令人敬畏的；難對付的 
fragile 易損壞的；易碎的；脆弱的 
fragmentary 片斷的；零星的；不完整的 
fright （尤指突然産生的）恐懼，驚嚇；使人驚嚇的經歷 
fringing 邊緣；界線 
funnel 漏斗 
fury 狂怒，暴怒 
fuselage 飛機機身 
gale 大風 
gaped 張開；裂開 
gauge （尤指用測量儀器）測量，計量，測算 
gelatinous 明膠的；膠狀的；膠黏的： 
girth 圍長；幹圍；腰圍 
glide 滑行；滑動 
glimmering 發出微弱的光；隱約閃爍 
glorious 輝煌的；光榮的；榮耀的 
glutinous 黏的；膠質的 
goggles 護目鏡；風鏡；游泳鏡 
grease 油，油脂；油膩狀物 
grim 可怕的，恐怖的 
grind 令人厭倦的苦事；苦差事 
groaned （表示痛苦的）呻吟聲；（表示不高興的）哼哼聲，嘆息聲 
gusty 一陣陣勁吹的；刮著陣風的 
gyroscopic 陀螺儀，回轉儀；（兒童玩具）陀螺 
hail 雹，冰雹 
halfpenny 微不足道的 
hangars 飛機庫 
hatred 憎恨，增惡；敵意 
hawk 鷹 
hazy 模糊的，朦朧的 
hedge （尤指花園、田地或馬路邊緣的）樹籬 
hesitate 猶豫，躊躇 
hiatus 間斷；間隙 
hideous 極醜的；極壞的 
horrible 可怕的，令人震驚的 極糟的；令人不快的 
hovering 盤旋；翱翔；懸停 
hummocks 小丘；小山 
hurriedly 倉促地，匆忙地；草率地 
hush （突然的）寂靜，安靜 
immeasurably 不可估量的，無限的 
impending （通常指不愉快或不受歡迎的事件）即將發生的，逼近的 
implored 懇求；哀求 
(with) impunity 無恙地 
inchoate 才開始的；不完全的；未發展完善的 
inhabit 居住於 
inhabitable 適合居住的，可居住的 
inhaler （用於吸入特定藥物的）吸入器 
ink 墨水；油墨；墨汁 
inquest 死因審理；驗屍 
insensibility 失去知覺的；沒察覺到的 
intellectual 智力的，腦力的 
intercept 攔截，截住 
intermittent 間歇的，斷斷續續的 
inventor 發明家；創造者 
iridescence 色彩斑斕的，虹彩的 
jeer 嘲笑，嘲弄 
jerks （使）猝然一動；猛推；急拉 
jerseys 針織緊身襯衣 
jungle 熱帶叢林 
ken 在（某人的）知識範圍之外 
lashed 猛擊；狠打 
leathern 皮革製的；似皮革的 
leisurely （行動）悠閒的，休閒的 
lessened 減少，降低，減輕 
lever 槓杆，操縱杆，控制手柄 
limbs 肢；臂；腳；翼 
loathsome 噁心的，令人厭惡的 
lonely 孤獨的，單獨的 
macabre （與死亡或暴力有關而）恐怖的，可怕的，令人毛骨悚然的 
magnificent 壯麗的，宏偉的，宏大的 
malaria 瘧疾 
manifestation 顯示；表明 
manuscript 手稿；原稿 
mauve 淡紫色（的） 
meadow （常指有野花的）草地，牧場 
mechanic 技師；機工；機械師 
mechanism 機械零件；機械裝置 
merely 僅僅，只，不過 
merit 優點；價值；功績 
mess 伙食團；食堂；集體用膳人員；伙食 
meteor 流星 
mischief 損害；傷害；危害 
miserable 令人難受的，令人痛苦的 
misfiring （引擎）無法啟動，不能正常運行 （槍彈）射不出，啞火 
misshapen 畸形的；奇形怪狀的 
mistress 女主人；女能人；起主宰作用的女子 
monoplane 單翼機 
monstrous 醜惡的；殘酷的；駭人聽聞的 
moods 心境，心情，情緒；精神狀態 
morbid （尤指對死亡等）病態的，著迷的 
mortal 凡人，普通人 （尤指人）終有一死的 
narrative 記敘文；故事 
nausea 噁心，嘔吐感 
nettles 蕁麻 
nevertheless 不過，仍然；儘管如此 
obliterated 徹底毀掉，抹去，覆蓋（使不留痕跡） 
obscured 使變暗；遮掩 
obvious 清楚的；顯然的，明顯的；明白的 
overalls 工作服；防護服 
oxygen 氧，氧氣 
padded 有填充物的，有襯墊的 
pale 暗淡的；淺的，淡的 
parachute 降落傘 
peculiar 奇怪的，古怪的 
perceived 察覺，注意到，意識到 
perfection 完美；完善 
peril 巨大的危險；危難，險境 
permanent 長久的；永久的，永恆的 
perpendicularly 垂直的，成直角的 
personality 個性，性格；人格 
perverted 反常的；變態的 
petrol 汽油 
pink 粉紅色的 
plotters 陰謀者 
poet 詩人 
pounce 猛撲，猛衝，突然襲擊 
pray 請 
precarious 危險的；不牢靠的，不穩的 
precision 準確（性），精確（性），精密（度） 
prefacing 序言，前言 
premonition （尤指不祥的）預兆，預感 
preserved 保護，維護；保存；保養 
preserves （尤指野生動物）保護區 
presuming 假定，假設；推測，認為 
prevailing 盛行的；現有的；通行的 
prey 被捕食的動物，獵物 
projections 凸出物；隆起物 
pronounced 宣稱；宣佈；斷言 
puffs 一小口（煙霧），一小股（空氣） 
pulsated 有規律地跳動（或振動） 
puncture （被）刺穿，（被）戳破 
purr 發出平穩低沉的聲音 
pursuit 嗜好，消遣，娛樂 
qualifications 合格證書，資格證明 
queer 奇怪的，古怪的 
racket 喧嘩；吵鬧聲；連續不斷的喧嚷 
ragged （衣服）破舊的，破爛的，不整齊的 （表演）不協調的，沒有章法的，拙劣的 
rarefaction 稀薄化；稀釋 
rarefied （空氣）缺氧的，稀薄的 
readjust 調整；微調 
reckoned 想；認為，以為 
reinforce 強化，加深，進一步證實（觀點、看法等） 
relics 遺物；遺跡；遺風；遺俗 
remarkable 非凡的；奇異的；引人注目的 
reputation 名譽；聲望；名望 
resembling 像；看起來像；與…相似 
restricted 受（尤指官方法規等）限制的，受約束的 
revealing 揭露真相的；透露內情的；發人深省的 
rhythm （音樂、詩歌和舞蹈的）節奏，韻律，節律 
rivet 鉚釘 
rubbish 垃圾；廢棄物 
satisfy 使滿足，使滿意 
scamped 小淘氣，小調皮 
scribbled 匆匆地寫；亂塗亂畫 
scum （液體上的）浮沫，浮渣，浮垢 
serpents 蛇 
shadowy 多陰影的；陰暗的，幽暗的 
shattered 破碎的，打碎的 
shivering （因寒冷、疾病或恐懼而）輕微顫抖，發抖 
shrugging （表示不知道或不感興趣）聳（肩） 
silencers （槍枝的）消音器 
silly 愚蠢的，傻的 
sinister 惡意的，陰險的，邪惡的 
sinuous 蜿蜒的，彎曲的 
skids （飛機的）降落滑撬 
skimmed 掠過，擦過（表面） 
skirts 位於…的邊緣；環繞…的四周；沿…的邊緣走；避免 
slacken （使）變鬆，（使）鬆開 
slide （使）滑動，（使）滑行 
slimy 黏糊糊的 
slippers 拖鞋 
sluggish 行動緩慢的；遲緩的 
smudge （擦拭後留下的）汙跡，污痕 
snap 突然折斷，哢嚓一聲折斷 
soared 猛增，驟升 
sob 嗚咽，啜泣，抽噎 
society 交往；相伴 
solitude 獨處，獨居 
sopped 濕透的；浸透的 
spiral 螺旋形 
spume 泡沫 
squadron （尤指英國空軍或海軍的）中隊 
squeak 發出短促的尖叫；吱吱叫；嘎吱作響 
squeal 發出長而尖的聲音；尖叫 
stains 沾汙，染汙；留下汙跡 
stately 有威嚴的，莊重的；高貴的 
steadiers 【機】固定支架，中心架 
stifling 悶熱的，熱得令人窒息的 
stillness 靜止的，不動的 
straggling 四散，散落 
stranded （因缺乏交通工具、金錢等）滯留的，被困住的 
strut 支柱，支杆；撐杆 
subside （狀況）趨於平緩，平息 
substantiate 證明…屬實；證實 
succession 一連串，一系列 
summit 頂峰，極點，巔峰 
suspended 懸浮，漂浮 
swallow 燕子 
swayed 搖擺，擺動 
swiftly 迅速地，敏捷地 
symptoms （疾病的）癥狀 
tack 搶風行駛（一艘船轉變方向，使船身與風的方向成一角度，以使船帆可接受風力） 
talc 滑石粉；爽身粉 
teal 小野鴨 
telescope 望遠鏡 
tentacles （海洋動物的）觸手，觸角 
tenuous 纖細的，單薄的，脆弱的 
terrible 可怕的，嚇人的，可怖的 
thermometer 溫度計；體溫計 
throttled 掐（喉嚨）；使窒息 
tilt （使）傾斜 
tints 淡淡的色澤（或色調） 
tourbillon （氣體或水形成的）紊流，湍流 
trembled 顫抖；發抖 
tremendous 巨大的；極好的 
undue 過分的，過度的 
unprecedented 史無前例的，空前的；絕無僅有的 
unscrewed 旋開…的蓋子；把…頂部旋開 
unsurpassed 卓越的；不可超越的 
vacuum 真空 
vague （形狀等）模糊不清的，朦朧的 
vainglorious 非常自負的；虛榮心強的 
vanished 消失的；滅絕的 
vapours 蒸氣；霧氣 
vast 巨大的；廣大的 
veined 有靜脈（或葉脈、翅脈）的；有紋理的 
veins 靜脈 
viscid 黏的；半流體的 
vulture 禿鷲；兀鷲 
whiff 一點點，些許 
whirled 旋轉，迴旋 
whisked 突然拿走，快速帶走 
whizzed 颼颼作聲 
wisps 一縷雲／煙／蒸汽 
wreaths 花環；花圈 
wrench 猛拉；猛扭；猛扯 
wretched 苦惱的；不幸的；素質差的 
writhing 扭曲；（痛苦地）扭動（身體等） 
zoologist 動物學家 
