Never Pay Your Lawyer by the Hour

Incentive Super-Response Tendency

To control a rat infestation, French colonial rulers in
Hanoi in the nineteenth century passed a law: For
every dead rat handed in to the authorities, the catcher
would receive a reward. Yes, many rats were destroyed, but
many were also bred specially for this purpose.

In 1947, when the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered, ar-
chaeologists set a finder's fee for each new parchment. Instead
of lots of extra scrolls being found, they were simply torn apart
to increase the reward. Similarly, in China in the nineteenth
century, an incentive was offered for finding dinosaur bones.
Farmers located a few on their land, broke them into pieces,
and cashed in. Modern incentives are no better: Company
boards promise bonuses for achieved targets. And what hap-
pens? Managers invest more energy in trying to lower the tar-
gets than in growing the business.

These are examples of the incentive super-response tendency.
Credited to Charlie Munger, this titanic name describes a
rather trivial observation: People respond to incentives by do-
ing what is in their best interests. What is noteworthy is, first,
how quickly and radically people's behavior changes when
incentives come into play or are altered, and second, the fact
that people respond to the incentives themselves, and not the
grander intentions behind them.

Good incentive systems comprise both intent and reward.
An example: In ancient Rome, engineers were made to stand
underneath the construction at their bridges' opening ceremo-
nies. Poor incentive systems, on the other hand, overlook and
sometimes even pervert the underlying aim. For example, cen-
soring a book makes its contents more famous, and rewarding
bank employees for each loan sold leads to a miserable credit
portfolio. Making CEO pay public didn't dampen the astro-
nomical salaries; to the contrary, it pushed them upward. No-
body wants to be the loser CEO in his industry.

Do you want to influence the behavior of people or organiza-
tions? You could always preach about values and visions or you
could appeal to reason. But in nearly every case, incentives work
better. These need not be monetary; anything is possible, from
good grades to Nobel Prizes to special treatment in the afterlife.

For a long time I tried to understand what made well-
educated nobles from the Middle Ages bid adieu to their
comfortable lives, swing themselves up onto horses, and take
part in the Crusades. They were well aware that the arduous
ride to Jerusalem lasted at least six months and passed directly
through enemy territory; yet they took the risk. And then it
came to me: The answer lies in incentive systems. If they came
back alive, they could keep the spoils of war and live out their
days as rich men. If they died, they automatically passed on to
the afterlife as martyrs - with all the benefits that came with
it. It was win-win.

Imagine for a moment that, instead of demanding enemies'
riches, warriors and soldiers charged by the hour. We would
effectively be incentivizing them to take as long as possible,
right? So why do we do just this with lawyers, architects, con-
sultants, accountants, and driving instructors? My advice: For-
get hourly rates and always negotiate a fixed price in advance.

Be wary, too, of investment advisers endorsing particular
financial products. They are not interested in your financial
well-being, but in earning a commission on these products.
The same goes for entrepreneurs' and investment bankers' busi-
ness plans. These are often worthless because, again, the ven-
dors have their own interests at heart. What is the old adage?
"Never ask a barber if you need a haircut."

In conclusion: Keep an eye out for the incentive super-response
tendency. If a person's or an organizatton's behavior confounds
you, ask yourself what incentive might lie behind it. I guarantee
you that you'll be able to explain 90 percent of the cases this
way. What makes up the remaining 10 percent? Passion, idiocy,
psychosis, or malice.
