?h* Art *f T1:inkiuXq Clearlv

Suppose your region is experiencing a record period of
cold weather. In all probability, the temperature will rise in
the next few days-back toward the monthly average. The
same goes for extreme heat, drought, or rain. Weather fluctu-
ates around a mean. The same is true for chronic pain, golf
handicaps, stock market performance, luck in love, subjective
happiness, and test scores. In short, the crippling back pain
would most 1ike1y have improved without a chiropractor. The
handicap would have returnedto L2 without additional les-
sons. And the performance of the investment adviser would
also have shifted back toward the market average-with or
without the restroom dance.
Extreme performances are interspersed with less extreme
ones. The most successful stock picks from the past three years
are hardly going to be the most successful stocks in the com-
ing three years. Knowing this, you can appreciate why some
athletes would rather not make it on to the front pages of the
newspapers: Subconsciously they know that the next time they
race, they probably wont achieve the same top result-which
has nothing to do with the media attention, but with natural
variations in performance.
Or take the example of a division manager who wants to
improve employee morale by sending the least motivated 3 per-
cent of the workforce on a course. The result? The next time he
looks at motivation 1evels, the same people will not make up
the bottom few-there will be others. Was the course worth it?
Hard to say, since the groupt motivation levels would probably
have returned to their personal norms even without the train-
ing. The situation is similar with patients who are hospitalized
for depression. They usually leave the clinic feeling a little bet-

56

:er. It is quite possible, however, that thr
=olutely nothing.
Another example: In Boston, the lorve:
rrere entered into a complex support prc
,r-ear, the schools had moved up in the ri
:nent that the authorities attributed to thr
ro natural regression to mean.
Ignoring regression to mean can hav
,{uences, such as teachers (or managers)
sdck is better than the carrot. For exampl<
bighest-performing students are praised a
:gated. In the next exam, other students r
;oincidentally-achieve the highest and
ire teacher concludes that reproach helps
illacy that keeps on giving.
In conclusion: When you hear stories
nent to the doctor, and got better a ferv d:
:anv had a bad year, so we got a consutr
-sults are back to normal," look out tb
-: gres s i on- to - rn e an eff ot.

