ing Clearly
region is experiencing a record period of
rll probability, the temperature will rise in
s-back toward the monthly average. The
eme heat, drought, or rain. Weather fluctu-
en- The same is true for chronic pain, golf
merket performance, luck in love, subjective
st scores. In short, the crippling back pain
'hate improved without a chiropractor. The
rzr-e returned to 1,2 without additional 1es-
rformance of the investment adviser would
back torvard the market average-with or
rom dance.
nnances are interspersed with less extreme
ccesstul stock picks from the past three years
m be the most successful stocks in the com-
Gorving this, you can appreciate why some
&er not make it on to the front pages of the
msciouslv they know that the next time they
lv u-on't achieve the same top result-which
r with the media attention, but with natural

anance.
xampie of a division manager who wants to
: morale bv sending the least motivated 3 per-
rrce on a course. The result? The next time he
on ler-els, the same people will not make up
there rvil1 be others. Was the course worth it?
r &e group's motivation levels would probably
their personal norms even without the train-
, is similar with patients who are hospitalized
rr- usuallv leave the clinic feeling a little bet-

R,clf Dobelli

ter. It is quite possible, however, that the stay contributed ab-
solutely nothing.
Another example: In Boston, the lowest-performing schools
lr'ere entered into a complex support program. The following
vear, the schools had moved up in the rankings, an improve-
ment that the authorities attributed to the program rather than
to natural regression to mean.
Ignoring regressioru to mean can have destructive conse-
quences, such as teachers (or managers) concluding that the
stick is better than the carrot. For example, following a test, the
highest-performing students are praised and the lowest are cas-
dgated. In the next exam, other students wiil probably-purely
coincidentaily-achieve the highest and lowest scores. Thus,
rhe teacher concludes that reproach helps and praise hinders: a
rallacy that keeps on giving.
In conclusion: When you hear stories such as: "I was sick,
rl-ent to the doctor, and got better a few days later" or "the com-
:any had a bad year, so we got a consultant in, and now the
:esults are back to normal," look out for our o1d friend, the
-:gression- to-mearu ettor.

57

