xffi

Never Judge a Decision by Its Outcome
Outcome Bias

quick hypothesis: Say one million monkeys speculate
on the stock market. They buy and sell stocks like
crazy and, of course, completely at random. What

happens? After one week, about half of the monkeys will have
made a profit and the other half a loss. The ones that made a
profit can stay; the ones that made a loss you send home. In
the second week, one half of the monkeys will stil1 be riding
high, whiie the other half will have made a loss and are sent
home. And so on. After ten weeks, about one thousand mon-
keys will be left-those who have always invested their money
wel1. After twenty weeks, just one monkey will remain-this
one always, without fail, chose the right stocks and is now a
billionaire. Let's call him the success monkey.
How does the media react? It will pounce on this animal
to understand its "success principles." And theywill find some:
Perhaps the monkey eats more bananas than the others. Per-
haps he sits in another corner of tfre cage. Or maybe he swings
headlong through the branches, or he takes long, reflective
pauses while grooming. He must have some recipe for success,

iqht) How else could he perform so bri
:\1o vears-and that from a simple monkr
11le monkey story illustrates the out;t
*-aluate decisions based on the result rad
,ion process. This fallacy is also knorvn
:or.' A classic exampie is the Japanese art
Should the military base have been eva
:u,dar.'s perspective: obviously, for there u
iat an attack was imminent. Horver-er'
ie signals zpper so clear. At the time'
:iethora of contradictory signals. Some
,rthers did not. To assess the qualin- of r
:se the information available at the tim'
Sing we know about it Postattack (Parti
Jeed take place).
Another exPeriment: \bu must er-alr
rt three heart surgeons. To do this, r'ou :
iitficult operation five times. Over the r-t
:r-ing from these procedures has stabilizt
::rrgeon A, no one dies. With surgeon B,
:urgeon C, two die. How do You rate the
rnd C? Ifyou think like most people, r-or
.econd best, and C the worst. And thu
:he outcome bias.Youcan guess whv: The
:endering the results meaningless' You '
;urgeon if you know something about *
:ully monitor the preparation and exect
In other words, you assess the process ';
:ernatively, you could employ a larger s:
one thousand operations ifyou have eno

