Ilecision by Its Outcome

pahesis: Sav one million monkeys speculate
tock market. They buy and sell stocks like
d' of course, completely at random. What
e week, about half of the monkeys will have
the other half a loss. The ones that made a
E ones that made a loss you send home. In
me half of the monkeys will still be riding
hrr h'alf rvil1 have made a loss and are sent
A-fter ten weeks, about one thousand mon-
ihose *'ho have always invested their money
'reeks, just one monkey will remain-this
m Ail, chose the right stocks and is now a
rll him the success monkey.
media react? It will pounce on this animal
ilccess principles." And they will find some:
Er eats more bananas than the others. Per-
:her corner of the cage. Or maybe he swinqs
the branches, or he takes long, reflective
uing. He must have some recipe for success,

I&olf 1)obell i

right? How else could he perform so brilliantly? Spot-on for
r\yo years-and that from a simple monkey? Impossible!
The monkey story illustrates the outcome bias: We tend to
evaluate decisions based on the result rather than on the deci-
sion process. This fallacy is also known as the "historian er-
ror." A classic example is the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
Should the military base have been evacuated or not? From
:odayt perspective: obviously, for there was plenty of evidence
lhat an attack was imminent. However, only in retrospect do
the signals appear so clear. At the time, in 7941, there was a
plethora of contradictory signals. Some pointed to an attack;
others did not. To assess the quality of the decision, we must
rse the information available at the time, filtering out every-
thing we know about it postattack (particularly that it did in-
Ceed take place).
Another experiment: You must evaluate the performance
:ithree heart surgeons. To do this, you ask each to carry out a
lifficult operation five times. Over the years, the probability of
Cving from these procedures has stabilized at 20 percent. With
:urgeon A, no one dies. With surgeon B, one patient dies. With
:urgeon C, two die. How do you rate the performances ofA, B,
rnd C? If you think like most people, you rate A the best, B the
.econd best, and C the worst. And thus you've just fallen for
-he outcome bias.You can guess why:The samples are too small,
:endering the results meaningless. You can only really judge a
iurgeon if you know something about the field, and then care-
:ully monitor the preparation and execution of the operation.
In other words, you assess the process and not the result. A1-
:ernatively, you could employ a larger sample: one hundred or
rne thousand operations if you have enough patients who need

59

