"ing Cl:ar11-

p ot i=h ttrout), and one telephone provided
. fte rl.ack box with the dial served no other
king ciis. and that did us just fine. In con-
r.rrer: a cell-phone store today runs the risk
lre: ar-alanche of brands, models, and con-

tin t :he r-ardstick of progress. It is what
rder:ed economies and the Stone Age. Yes,
i wri :rddv, but there is a limit. When it is
tdch,:ice s destroys quality of life. The tech-
l b Se -s-lra dox of choice.
ir[c sa::re tit1e, psychologist Barry Schwartz
r fo :o- First, a large selection leads to inner
iEs- a supermarket set up a stand where cus-
;& ruenn-four varieties ofjelly. They could
L.f lJiod and then buy them at a discount.
ilrE:} carried out the same experiment with
Lc re.:1ri They sold ten times more je1ly on
hh such a rvide range, customers could not
[, $o :ne\- bought nothing. The experiment
r:I u::es rrith different products. The results
E-
rdcr -iection leads to poorer decisions. If you
rtar ;s important in a life pzrtnet, they reel
:elides: intelligence, good manners, warmth,
[, r' sense of humor, and physical attractive-
sualh take these criteria into account when
i L.r r-he past, a young man from a village of
lchoose among maybe twenty girls of simiiar
rrisnt to school. He knew their families and

Roli Dobelli

rke yersa, leading to a decision based on several well-knou-n at-
:ibutes. Nowadays, in the era of online dating, millions ot po-
=ntial partners are at our disposal. It has been proven that the
iress caused by this mind-boggling variety is so large that the
=ale brain reduces the decision to one single criterion: physical
r:tractiveness. The consequences of this selection process you
r-ready know-perhaps even from personal experience.
Finally, large selection leads to discontent. How can you be
srre you are making the right choice when two hundred op-
:ions surround and confound you? The answer is: You cannot.
fhe more choice you have, the more unsure and therefore dis-
sadsfied you are afterward.
So what can you do? Think carefully about what you want
:efore you inspect existing offers. Write down these criteria
md stick to them rigidly. Also, realize that you can never make
a perfect decision. Aiming for this is, given the flood of pos-
sibilities, a form of irrational perfectionism. Instead, learn to
rLf\-e a "good" choice. Yes, even in terms of life partners. Only
:le best will do? In this age of unlimited variety, rather the op-
:osite is true: "Good enough" is the new optimum (except, of
iourse, for you and me).

63

