Th* Art *f Thir:king i)learly

or strong), one type of fish (trout), and one telephone provided
by the Swiss Post. The black box with the dial served no other
purpose than making calis, and that did us just fine. In con-
trast, anyone who enters a cell-phone store today runs the risk
of being flattened by an avalanche of brands, models, and con-
tract options.
And yet selection is the yardstick of progress. It is what
sets us apart from planned economies and the Stone Age. Yes,
abundance makes you giddy, but there is a limit. When it is
exceeded, a surfeit of choices destroys quality of life. The tech-
nical term for this is the paradox of choice.
In his book of the same title, psychologist Barry Schwartz
describes why this is so. First, alarge selection leads to inner
paralysis. To test this, a supermarket set up a stand where cus-
tomers could sample twenty-four varieties of jelly. They could
try as many as they liked and then buy them at a discount.
The next day, the owners carried out the same experiment with
only six flavors. The result? They sold ten times more jelly on
day two. Why? With such a wide range, customers could not
come to a decision, so they bought nothing. The experiment
was repeated several times with different products. fhe results
were always the same.
Second, a broader selection leads to poorer decisions. Ifyou
ask young people what is important in a life partner) they reel
off all the usual qualities: intelligence, good manners, warmth,
the ability to listen, a sense of humor, and physical attractive-
ness. But do they actually take these criteria into account when
choosing someone? In the past, a,young man from a village of
average size could choose among *uyb. twenty girls of similar
age with whom he went to school. He knew their families and

62

'.-ice versa, leading to a decision based on se'
:ributes. Nowadays, in the era of online da
:.ntial partners are at our disposal. It has I
::ress caused by this mind-boggling varier
:lale brain reduces the decision to one sing
"tractiveness. The consequences of this s
,lreadl know-perhaPs even from personz
Finally, large selection leads to discontt
:rre you are making the right choice whr
:lons surround and confound you? The an
fhe more choice you have, the more unsu
';risfied you are afterward.
So what can you do? Think carefullv z
:etbre you inspect existing offers. Write
":d stick to them rigidly. A1so, realize thar
; serfect decision. Aiming for this is, gi'r
;:'rilities, a form of irrational perfectioni,
.:-;e a "good" choice. Yes, even in terms c
:::e best will do? In this age of unlimited r'
:,rsite is true: "Good enough" is the nes'
: -r,'Jrse, for you and me).

