f,:6a
<r€a

reople seem unfriendly and don't even m
:round (see A). In addition to engaging sr"
:.Jr.ertising also employs "people like yor-
:lose who are similar in appearance, acc
In short, the more similar, the better. Mi
::chnique in sales to get exactly this effect
.:n tries to copy the gestures, language, a
,: his prospective client. If the buyer spe
:.rietly, often scratching his head, it make
:r speak slowly and quietly, and to scratc
::ren, too. That makes him likable in the e.
::rus a business deal is more like1y. Finallr
:,,1 advertisers to pay us compliments: Hc
". ru bought something "because you're wor,
: rrnes into play: We find people appealing i
:-iments work wonders, even if they ring h
So-called multilevel marketing (se1lin
--:avorks) works solely because of the likin,
.:e excellent plastic containers in the super
.: lhe price, Tupperware generates annual
-:ir. Why? The friends who hold the Ti:pp
:::e second and third congeniality standard
-{id agencies employ the tiking bias to
:.:rpaigns use beaming children or womer
\n.r-er will you see a stone-faced, wound
i:"iing at you from billboards-even thc
, -r support. Conservation organizations
o-i: gets the starring role in their adverti
:'i-:: seen a World Wildlife Fund brochure
,r-':rrrSr algae, or bacteria? They are perhap,

You Like Me, You Really, Really Like Me

Liking Bias

evin has just bought two boxes of fine Margaux. He
rurely drinks wine-not even Bordeaux-but the
sales assistant was so nice, not fake or pushy, just

really likable. So he bought them.
Joe Girard is considered the most successful car salesman in
the world. His tip for success: "Ther0t nothing more effective
in selling anything than getting the customer to believe, really
believe, that you like him and care about him." Girard doesn't
just talk the talk His secret weapon is sending a card to his
customers each month. Just one sentence salutes them: "I like
you."
the liking bias is startlingly simple to understand and yet
we continually fall prey to it. It means this: The more we like
someone, the more inclined we are to buy from or help that
person. Still, the question remains: What does "likable" even
mean? According to research, we see people as pleasant,
if (a) they are outwardly attract\ve, (b) they are similar to us
in terms of origin, personality, or interests, and (c) they like
us. Consequently, advertising is fu1l of attractive people. Ugly

