Tire Art of Thinking Clearly

as pandas, gorillas, koalas, and seals-and even more impor-
tant for the ecosystem. But we feel nothing for them. The more
human a creature acts, the more similar it is to us, the more we
like it. The bone skipper fly is extinct? Too bad.
Politicians, too, are maestros of the liking bias. Depending
on the makeup and interests of an audience, they emphasize
different topics, such as residential area, social background, or
economic issues. And they flatter us: Each Potential voter is
made to feel like an indispensable member of the team: "Your
vote counts!" Of course your vote counts, but only by the tiniest
offractions, bordering on the irrelevant.
A friend who deals in oil pumps told me how he once closed
an eight-figure deal for a pipeline in Russia. "Bribery?" I in-
quired. He shook his head. "We were chatting, and suddenly
we got on to the topic of sailing. It turned out that both of us-
the buyer and me-were die-hard 470 dinghy fans. From that
moment on, he liked me; I was a friend. So the deal was sealed.
Amiability works better than bribery."
So, if you are a salesperson, make buyers think you like
them, even if this means outright flattery. And if you are a con-
sumer, always judge a product independent of who is selling it'
Banish the salespeople from your mind or, rather, pretend you
don' like them.

23

Don't Cling to Things
lndowment Effect

he BMW gleamed in the Parkine
dealership. Although it had a ferv
eter, it looked in perfect conditi

ir,.:t used cars, and to me, it was wort
I -'.vever, the salesman was pushing for 55
r,i3:e a dime. When he called the next rr
er:.:t 540,000 after all,I went for it' Th
;,*: rcr a spin and stopPed at a gas statio
;r-: :o admire the car-and proceeded to
;a::: on the spot. I politely declined. On.
ni: I realize how ridiculous I was to har-e
::;: I considered worth $40,000 had Pas
x,:i :nd suddenly taken on a value of m<
- *'.:t thinking purely rationally, I r,r'ou
rn::-:diately. But, alas, 1'd fallen under
:r*t';t-*',t1€?tt efect.We consider things to t
rr : i:-.nt we own them. In other words, ii
;f,-:-a. rve charge more for it than what rr,
ry-*-:::q to spend.

