Licg C.earil,-


r' hoaL.. and seals-and even more impor-
*rr* But u-e feel nothing for them. The more
: rts- ::e more similar it is to us, the more we
fifipe: f,r-is extinct? Too bad.
r, a:e ::raestros of the liking bias. Depending
:d i:.:ere'ts of an audience, they emphasize
rch a-. residential area, social background, or
.And ::er'flatter us: Each potential voter is
:r i:ailspensable member of the team: "Your
tnrs€ \ our vote counts, but only by the tiniest
]lri-g 03 the irrelevant.
&rk h oil pumps told me how he once closed
hrl tor a pipeline in Russia. "Bribery?" I in-
L his head. 'We were chatting, and suddenly
n;ic ol sailing. It turned out that both of us-
HEre die-hard 470 dinghy fans. From that
bd me: I rvas a friend. So the deal was sealed.
rbcrter than bribery."
c e selesperson, make buyers think you like
BEarr-i outright flattery. And ifyou are a con-
fte e product independent ofwho is selling it.
poph lrom your mind or, rather, pretend you

23

Don't Cling to Things
Endowment Effect

he BMW gleamed in the parking lot of the used-car
dealership. Although it had a few miles on the odom-
eter, it looked in perfect condition. I know a little

:.bout used cars, and to me, it was worth around $40,000.
However, the salesman was pushing for $50,000 and wouldn't
budge a dime. When he called the next week to say he would
ircept $40,000 after all,I went for it. The next day, I took it
:ut for a spin and stoppe d at a gas station. The owner came
rut to admire the car-and proceeded to offer me $53,000 in
;a;h on the spot. I politely declined. Only on the way home
jid I realize how ridiculous I was to have said no. Something
:hat I considered worth $40,000 had passed into my posses-
;ion and suddenly taken on a value of more than $53,000. If
I rrere thinking purely rationally, I would have sold the car
::rmediately. But, alas, I'd fallen under the influence of the
p:doument efect.We consider things to be more valuable the
=oment we own them. In other words, ifwe are selling some-
:ning, we charge more for it than what we ourselves would be
n illing to spend.

