l ne Ar1 {)r i t"i.:.t1Klng utearly

To probe this, psychologist Dan Ariely conducted the fol-
lowing experiment: In one of his classes, he rafled tickets to
a major basketball game, then polled the students to see hovr.
much they thought the tickets were worth. The empty-handed
students estimated around $170, whereas the winning students
would not sell it below an average of $2,400. The simple fact oi
ownership makes us add zeros to the selling price.
In real estate, the endoument efect is palpable. Sellers be-
come emotionally attached to their houses and thus systemati
caliy overestimate their value. They balk at the market price,
expecting buyers to pay more-which is completely absurd
since this excess is little more than sentimental value.
Richard Thaler performed an interesting classroom experi-
ment at Cornell University to measure the endovLment efect.He
distributed coffee mugs to half of the students and told them
they could either take the mug home or sell it at a price thel
could speci&. Th. other half of the students who didn't get a
mug were asked how much they would be willing to pay for a
mug. In other words, Thaler set up a market for coffee mugs.
One would expect that roughly 50 percent of the students
would be willing to trade-to either sell or buy a mug. But the
result was much lower than that. Why? Because the average
owner would not sell below fi5.25, and the average buyer would
not pay more than ff2.25 for a mug.
We can safely say that we are better at collecting things
than at casting them off. Not only does this explain whywe fill
our homes with junk, but also why lovers of stamps, watches,
and pieces of aft part with them so seldomly.
Amazingly, the endossment ef,ct affects not only possession,
but also near ownership. Auction houses like Christie's and

68

Sotheby's thrive on this. A person who bi<
:: auction gets the feeling that the object i
::rus increasing its value. The would-be or,r'n
-1q to pay much more than planned, and ar
:::e bidding is perceived as a loss-which
--:ge auctions, such as those for mining rig
:::quencies, we often observe the uinner's c;
:=ssful bidder turns out to be the economic
:.i:ght up in the fervor and overbids. I'11 of
:':-= iainner's cursein chapter 35.
There's a similar effect in the job market.
: -: a job and don't get a call back, you have
:'=appointed. However, if you make it to th
;=-ection process and then receive the rejecti
::-:nt can be much bigger-irrationally. Eit
:.1'ou don't; nothing else should matter.
In conclusion: Don't cling to things. C
:-.'something that the "universe" (whatet'e
:r has bestowed to you temporarily. Keep
:ii-rup this (or more) in the blink of an eve.

