faA
J€,T+

The Inevitability of Unlikely Events
Coincidence

t7:1.5 p.m. on March 1,,1950, the fifteen members of
the church choir in Beatrice, Nebraska, were sched-
uled to meet for rehearsal. For various reasons, they

were all running late. The minister's familywas delayed because
his wife still had to iron their daughter's dress. One couple was
held back when their car wouldn't start. The pianist wanted to
be there thirty minutes early, but he fell into a deep sleep after
dinner. And so on. At 7:25 p.m., the church exploded. The
blast was heard all around the village. It blew out the walls and
sent the roof crashing to the ground. Miraculously, nobodywas
killed. The fire chief traced the explosion back to a gas leak,
even though members of the choir were convinced they had
received a sign from God. Hand of God or coincidence?
Something last week made me think of my old school friend,
Andy, whom I hadn't spoken to in a long time. Suddenly the
phone rang. I picked it up, and, 1o and behold, it was Andy.
"1 must be telepathic!" I exclaimed excitedly. But telepathy or
coincidence? \
On October 5,199A, the San Francisco Exaru.iner reported

::at Intel would take its rival, AMD, t,
rt that the company was planning to lau
:,imed AM386, a term that clearly referre
i{ow Intel came upon the information is
: rincidence, both companies had hired so
-.\ ebb. Both men were staying in the sam
.:d checked out on the same day. After th
.:cepted a package for Mike Webb at rec
:::-ifidential documents about the AM38(
::stakenly sent it to Mike Webb of Intel
,. -irded the contents to the legal departme
How likely are stories like that? fhe Sr.r,
- -rq saw in them the work ofan unknown f
,-,':chronicity. But how should a rationall.r-
::-'ach these accounts? Preferably with a
; :encil. Consider the first case, the explr
l:;u, four boxes to represent each of the 1
::.: possibility is what act:ually took place
-'- -rch exploded." But there are three othe
;-. =l and church did not explode," "choir
, ,:loded," and "choir on time and churc
: ':larate the frequencies of these evenrs
:-: .orresponding box. Pay special attenri
-i":: .ase has happened: Every day, million.
--.-.duled rehearsals and their churches i
:.:-r, the story has lost its unimaginable .
* --:ons of churches, it would be improbat
', .-": happened in Beatrice, Nebraska, diJ.:
.,,: a century. So, no hand of God. (An;
,- i u'ant to blow a church to smithereer:s

