oLi- e 3-eari1-

j io ,;'. o, of the invasion. On April 17, 1961,,
l(X) er:-eC Cubans landed at the Bay of Pigs,
rctxl.{-'.rith the help of the U.S. Navy, the Air
Can- The aim was to overthrow Castro's gov-
:rs- rc:ling went as planned. On the first day,
Fb *Lji reached the coast. The Cuban air force
nD. enl the next two turned around and fled
:d Ste:es. -{ day later, Castro's army completely
Lirace. On the third day, the 1,200 survivors
and sent to military prisons.
f,:rsicln of the Bay of Pigs is regarded as one
bp's Lr. {merican foreign policy. That such an
rcrer;g.reed upon, never mind put into action,
l[ortre assumptions that spoke in favor of the
rl(xleous. For example, Kennedy's team com-
tlrreted the strength of Cuba's air force. Also,
I thrr. in an emergency, the brigade would be
fu E=-*ambray Mountains and carry out an un-
egeinst Castro from there. A glance at the map
duge'rras 100 miles away from the Bay of Pigs,
mtai'ie s\vamp in between. And yet Kennedy
IGrE arnong the most intelligent people to ever
E t$'ernment. What went wrong between Jan-
t!t61:
pote:.or In,ingJanis has studied many fiascoes.
fia" dlev share the following pattern: Members
group cultivate team spirit by (unconsciously)
m. One of these fantasies is a belief in invinci-
mr leader [in this case, Kennedy] and the $roup
ha the pian willwork, then luck will be on our

Rolf Dobelli

side." Next comes the illusion ofunanimity: Ifthe others are of
the same opinion, any dissenting view must be wrong. No one
\yants to be the naysayer that destroys team unity. Finally, each
person is happy to be part ofthe group. Expressing reservations
could mean exclusion from it. In our evolutionary past, such
banishment guaranteed death; hence our strong urge to remain
in the group's favor.
Groupthink is no stranger in the business world. A classic
example is the fate of the world-class airline Swissair. Here,
a group of highly paid consultants rallied around the former
CEO and, bolstered by the euphoria of past successes, they de-
r-eloped a high-risk expansion strategy (including the acquisi-
tion of several European airlines). The zealous team built up
such a strong consensus that even rational reservations were
:uppressed, leading to the airline's collapse in 2001.
If you ever find yourself in a tight, unanimous group, you
must speakyour mind, even ifyour team does not like it. Qes-
rion tacit assumptions, even ifyou risk expulsion from the warm
nest. And, ifyou lead a group, appoint someone as devil's advo-
cate. She will not be the most popular member of the team, but
.he might be the most important.

75

