?hn ,{ri *f T}rixkjltg fiiearly

advisers all voted in favor of the invasion. On April 77,1961,,
a brigade of 1,400 exiled Cubans landed at the Bay of Pigs,
on Cuba's south coast, with the help of the U.S. Navy, the Air
Force, and the CIA. The aim was to overthrow Castro's gov-
ernment. However, nothing went as planned. On the first day,
not a single supply ship reached the coast. The Cuban air force
sank the first two, and the next two turned around and fled
back to the United States. A day later, Castro's army completely
surrounded the brigade. On the third day, the 1,200 survivors
were taken into custody and sent to military prisons.
Kennedy's invasion of the Bay of Pigs is regarded as one
of the biggest flops in American foreign policy. That such an
absurd plan was ever agreed uPon, never mind put into action,
is astounding. A1l of the assumptions that spoke in favor of the
invasion were erroneous. For example, Kennedy's team com-
pletely underestimated the strength of Cuba's air force. Also,
it was expected that, in an emergency, the brigade would be
able to hide in the Escambray Mountains and carry out an un-
derground war against Castro from there. A glance at the map
shows that the refuge was 100 miles away from the Bay of Pigs,
with an insurmountable swamp in between. And yet Kennedy
and his advisers were among the most intelligent people to ever
run an American government. What went wrong between Jan-
uary and April 1961?
Psychology professor lrvingJanis has studied many fiascoes.
He concluded that they share the following pattern: Members
of a close-knit group cultivate team spirit by (unconsciously)
building illusions. One of these fantasies is a belief in invinci-
bility: "If both our leader [in this case, Kennedy] and the group
are confident that the plan will work, then luck will be on our

74

side." Next comes the illusion of unanimir,
the same opinion, any dissenting view mu
\vants to be the naysayer that destroys tean
person is happy to be part of the group. Ex
could mean exclusion from lt. In our evc
banishment guaranteed death; hence our s
in the group's favor.
Groupthink is no stranger in the busir
:rample is the fate of the world-class air
r group of highly paid consultants ralliec
CEO and, bolstered by the euphoria of par
".-eloped a high-risk expansion strategy (ir
:ion of several European airlines). the ze
.uch a strong consensus that even ration
'uppressed, leading to the airline's collapsr
Ifyou ever find yourselfin a tight, un
rust speakyour mind, even ifyour team d
:ion tacit assumptions, even ifyou risk expt
:-est. And, ifyou lead a group, appoint sorr
:rte. She will not be the most popular mer
':e might be the most important.

