,R
6.Jt'

WhyYou'IISoon Be Playing Mega Trillions
Neglect of Probability

wo games ofchance: In the first, you canwin $10 million,
and in the second, $10,000. Which do you play? Ifyou
win the first game, it changes your life completely:

You can quit your job, tell your boss where to go, and live
off the winnings. If you hit the jackpot in the second game,
you can take a nice vacation in the Caribbean, but you'll be
back at your desk quick enough to see your Postcard arrive.
The probability of winning is one in 100 miilion in the first
game, and one in 10,000 in the second game. So which do
you choose?
Our emotions draw us to the first game, even though the
second is ten times better, objectively considered (expected win
times probability). Therefore, the trend is toward ever-larger
jackpots-Mega Millions, Mega Billions, Mega Tiillions-no
matter how small the odds are.
In a classic experiment fromlgT2,particiPants were divided
into two groups. The members of the first group were told that
they would receive a small eleCtric shock. In the second group,
subjects were told that the risk of this happening was only 50

sercent. -Ihe researchers measured phr-si
lervousness, sweating, etc.) shortly bet
:esult were, we1l, shocking: There was al
Participants in both groups were equal
:esearchers announced a series ofreduct
rfa shock for the second group: from 50
:hen 10 percent, then 5 percent. The res
However, when they declared they wouJ
,:,f the expected current, both groups'
;qain, by the same degree. This illustr
:o the expected magnitude of an event (
rr the amount of electricity), but not to
-.,rords: We lack an intuitive grasp of prol
The proper term for this is neglect aJ j
:o errors in decision making. We inves
:he potential profit makes dollar signs
but we forget (or are too lazy) to investi
ri new businesses actually achieving su
:ollowing extensive media coverage of a r
lights without really considering the mi
--rashing (which, of course, rer_nains the
=uch a disaster). Many amateur investors
::rents solely on the basis ofyield. For ther
;. return of 20 percent must be twice as
:erurns 1"0 percent. That's wrong. It rrou
ilso consider both investments' risks. Bu
:o natural feel for this, so we often rurn
Back to the experiment with the elet
E, the probability of getting a jolt u'as i
i percent to 4 percent to 3 percent. Onlr

