)on Be Playing Mega Trillions
,bability

- o: chance: In the first, you canwin $l-0 million,
he seccnd, $10,000. Which do you play? Ifyou
: i.r': 3ame, it changes your life completely:
:ur iob. tell your boss where to go, and live
... I: r-ou hit the jackpot in the second game'
nice ,.-rcation in the Caribbean, but you'll be
:sk ouick enough to see your postcard arrive'
oi,.r-inning is one in 100 million in the first
in 10.000 in the second game. So which do

:s dra*'us to the first game, even though the
nes 'retter, objectively considered (expected win
n' . Therefore, the trend is toward ever-larger
a \liiiions, Mega Billions, Mega Trillions-no
i' :he odds are.
rle riment {rom lgT2,participants were divided
i. T!-e nembers of the first group were told that
:i'r-e " sma1l electric shock. In the second gioup,
:li rnat the risk of this happening was only 50

fi,*lf D*bel1i

oercent. 'Ihe researchers measured physical anxiety (heart rate,
:rervousness, sweating, etc.) shortly before commencing. The
:esult were, well, shocking: There was absolutely no dift-erence.
Participants in both groups were equally stressed. Next, the
:esearchers announced a series of reductions in the probability
,:ia shock for the second group: from 50 percent to 20 percent,
:hen 10 percent, then 5 percent. The result: still no difference!
However, when they declared they would increase the strength
,rf the expected current, both groups' anxiety levels rose-
again, by the same degree. This illustrates that we respond
:o the expected magnitude of an event (the size of the jackpot
or the amount of electricity), but not to rts tikelihood.In other
',r'ords: We lack an intuitive grasp of probability.
The proper term for this is neglect ofprobability, and it leads
:o errors in decision making. We invest in start-ups because
:he potential profit makes dollar signs flash before our eyes,
Dut we forget (or are too lazy) to investigate the slim chances
rf new businesses actually achieving such growth. Similarly,
:oliowing extensive media coverage of a plane crash, we cancel
lights without really considering the minuscule probability of
:rashing (which, of course, remains the same before and after
.uch a disaster). Many amateur investors compare their invest-
nents solely on the basis ofyield. F'or them, Google shares with
" return of 20 percent must be twice as good as property that
:eturns 10 percent. That's wrong. It would be a lot smarter to
.:lso consider both investments' risks. But then again, we have
no natural feel for this, so we often turn a blind eye to it.
Back to the experiment with the electric shocks: In group
B, the probability of getting a jolt was further reduced: from
-< percent to 4 percent to 3 percent. Only when the probability

77

