T?re -{rt cf T}rinkic}g Clearly

arc allside issues; the attraction is that they are in short supply.
In one study, students were asked to arrange ten posters in
order of attractiveness-with the agreement that afterward
they could keep one poster as a reward for their participation.
F ive rninutes later, they were told that the poster with the third-
highest rating was no longer available. Then they were asked
to judge all ten from scratch. The poster that was no longer
available was suddenly classified as the most beautiful. In psy-
chology, this phenomenon is called "reactance": When we are
deprived of an option, we suddenly deem it more attractive. It
is a kind of act of defiance. It is also known as the "Romeo and
Juliet effect": Because the love between the tragic Shakespear-
ean teenagers is forbidden, it knows no bounds. This yearn-
ing must not necessarily be in a romantic way. In the United
States, student parties are often littered with desperately drunk
teenagers. In Europe, where the age limit is eighteen, you don't
witness this type of behavior.
In conclusion: The typical response to scarcity is a lapse in
clear thinking. Assess products and services solely on the basis
of their price and benefits. It should be of no importance if an
item is disappearing fast or if any doctors from London take an
interest.

{'t ft
6m

When You Hear Hoofbeats, Don't E
Base-Rate Neglect

ark is a thin man from Germar
likes to listen to Mozart. Wh
That (a) Mark is a truck driver

fessor of literature in Frankfurt. Most will
wrong. Germany has ten thousand times
than Frankfurt has literature professors. T
likely that Mark is a truck driver. So what
detailed description enticed us to overlook
iry. Scientists call this fallacy base-rate netr
fundamental distribution levels. It is one o1
errors in reasoning. Virtually all journalis
politicians fall for it on a regular basis.
Here is a second example: A young mar
tal1y injured. Which of these is more likeh
a Russian immigrant and imports combat
b) the attacker is a middle-class American.
now: Option B is much more likely becaust
limes more middle-class Americans than

<nife importers.

82

