&{

Why the Last Cookie in the Jar Makes Your
Mouth Water
Scarcity Error

offee at a friend's house. We sat trying to make con-
versation while her three children grappled with one
another on the floor. Suddenly I remembered that I

had brought some glass marbles with me-a whole bag full. I
spilled them out on the floor, in the hope that the little angels
would playwith them in peace. Far from it: A heated argument
ensued. I didnt understand what was happening until I looked
more closely. Apparently, among the countless marbles, there
was just one blue one, and the children scrambled for it. A11 the
marbles were exactly the same size and shiny and bright. But
the blue one had an advantage over the others-it was one of a
kind. I had to laugh at how childish children are!
In August 2005,when I heard that Google would launch its
own e-mail service, I was dead-set on getting an account. (In
the end I did.) At the time, new accounts were very restricted
and were given out only by invitption. This made me want one
even more. But why? Certainly not because I needed another e-
mail account (back then, I already had four), or because Gmail

was better than the competition, but sir
eryone had access to it. Looking back, I I
childish adults are!

Rara sunt cara, said the Romans. Rarr
the scarcity error is as old as mankind. I\{r.
children is a part-time real estate agent. \
interested buyer who cannot decide, she ca
tor from London saw the plot of land r.es
lot. What about you? Are you still intereste
London-sometimes it,s a professor or a b;
fictitious. The effect is very real, though: It
see the opportunity disappearing before th
and close the deal. Whyt This is the poten,
ply, yet again. Objectively, this situation i
Either the prospect wants the land for the
not-regardless of any doctors from Londc
'Io assess the quality of cookies, profess<
split participants into two groups. The firs
entire box of cookies, and the second groi
end, the subjects with just two cookies rate
higher than the first group did. The experi
several times and always showed the same r
"Only while stocks last,,, the ads alert. -
the posters. Gallery owners take advantaqt
,or by placing red "sold,, dots under mosr
transforming the remaining few works in
must be snatched up quickly. We collect srar
.ars even when they serve no practical purpc
doesnt accept the old stamps, the banks dc
and the vintage cars are no longer allowed t

