lookie in the Jar Makes Your

; :iiend's house. We sat trying to make con-
: ,,q'iiie her three children grappled with one
on the floor. Suddenly I remembered that I
:t 3::;1ss marbles with me-a whole bag fu1l' I
:r :he floor, in the hope that the little angels
:i-en in peace. Far from it: A heated argument
:::ierstand what was happening until I looked
:3a:entlr', among the countless marbles' there
, ,-.,,,.. und the children scrambled for it' Al1the
:.i;:lr the same size and shiny and bright' But
1 ar a,Jvantage over the others-it was one of a
i-q:h at how childish children are!
-',-,,:. rvhen I heard that Google would launch its
;:;e. 1 ri'as dead-set on getting an account' (In
-\: :re time, new accounts were vefy restricted
::: onlr- by invitation. This made me want one
'r::',-i C ertainly not because I needed another e-
,.-r{ :;ren, 1 already had four), or because Gmail

Eolf Dobelli

was better than the competition, but simply because not ev-
eryone had access to it. Looking back, I have to laugh at how
childish adults are!

Rara sunt cara, said the Romans. Rare is va1uab1e. In fact,
the scarcity error is as old as mankind. My friend with the three
children is a part-time real estate agent. Whenever she has an
interested buyer who cannot decide, she cal1s and says: 'A doc-
tor from London saw the plot of land yesterday. He liked it a
lot. What about you? Are you still interested?" The doctor from
London-sometimes it's a professor or a banker-is, of course,
fictitious. The effect is very real, though: It causes prospects to
see the opportunity disappearing before their eyes, so they act
and close the deal. Why? This is the potential shortage of sup-
ply, yet agaln. Objectively, this situation is incomprehensible:
Either the prospect wants the land for the set price or he does
not-regardless of any doctors from London.
To assess the quality of cookies, Professor Stephen Worchel
split participants into two groups. The first group received an
entire box of cookies, and the second group just two. In the
end, the subjects with just two cookies rated the quality much
higher than the first group did. The experiment was repeated
.everal times and always shbrwed the same result.
"Only while stocks last," the ads alert. "Today only," warn
:he posters. Gallery owners take advantage of the scarcity er-
,cr by placing red "so1d" dots under most of their paintings,
rransforming the remaining few works into rare items that
must be snatched up quickly. We collect stamps, coins, vintage
rars even when they serve no practical purpose. The post office
loesn't accept the o1d stamps, the banks don't take old coins,
rnd the vintage cars are no longer allowed on the road. These

81

