king Clearll-

;6e atrraction is that they are in short supply.
students tere asked to arrange ten posters in
reoess-ltith the agreement that afterward
xE poster as a reward for their participation.
r, tfier- rrere told that the poster with the third-
u no longer available. Then they were asked
Eom .cratch. The poster that was no longer
.lc'rb'classified as the most beautiful. In psy-
rrxnenon is called "reactance": When we are
tixr. *'e suddenly deem it more attractive. It
'drfience. It is also known as the "Romeo and
axe the love between the tragic Shakespear-
frrbidden, it knows no bounds. This yearn-
csserilr- be in a romantic way. In the United
rtks are often littered with desperately drunk
ope, nhere the age limit is eighteen, you dont
ofbehavior.
the n'pical response to scarcity is a lapse in
ssess products and services solely on the basis
benefits. It should be of no importance if an
ry fast or ifany doctors from London take an

uffi

When You Hear Hoofbeats, Don,t Expect aZebra
Base-R,ate Neglect

ark is a thin man from Germany with glasses who
likes to listen to Mozaft. Which is more likely?
That (a) Mark is a truck driver or (b) he is a pro-

fessor of literature in Frankfurt. Most will bet on B, which is
wrong. Germany has ten thousand times more truck drivers
than Frankfurt has literature professors. Therefore, it is more
iikely that Mark is a truck driver. So what just happened? The
detailed description enticed us to overlook the statistical real-
ity. scientists call this fallacy base-rate neglect: a disregard of
fundamental distribution levels. It is one of the most common
errors in reasoning. Virtually all journalists, economists, and
politicians fall for it on a regular basis.
Here is a second example: A young man is stabbed and fa-
tal1y injured. which of these is more likely? (a) The attacker is
a Russian immigrant and imports combat knives illegally, or
(b) the attacker is a middle-class American. you know the drill
now: option B is much more likely because there are a mirlion
times more middle-class Americans than there are Russian
knife importers.

