?hc Art *f Thir:king Clearly

In medicine, base-rate neglect plays an important role. For
example, migraines can point (among others) to a viral infec-
tion or a brain tumor. However, viral infections are much more
common (in other words, they have a higher base rate), so doc-
tors assess patients for these first before testing for tumors. This
is very reasonable. In medical school, residents spend a lot of
time purging base-rate neglect. The motto drummed into any
prospective doctor in the United States is: "When you hear
hoofbeats behind you, don't expect to see a zebra," whrch means:
Investigate the most likely ailments before you start diagnosing
exotic diseases, even if you are a specialist in that. Doctors are
the only professionals who enjoy this base-rate training.
Regrettably, few people in business are exposed to base-rate
training. Now and then I see high-flying entrepreneurs' busi-
ness plans and get very excited by their products, ideas, and
personalities. I often catch myself thinking: This could be the
next Google! But a glance at the base rate brings me back down
to earth. The probability that a firm will survive the first five
years is 20 percent. So what, then, is the probability that they
will grow into a global corporation? Almost zero.Warren BuF
fett once explained why he does not invest in biotech compa-
nies: "How many of these companies make revenues of several
hundred million dollars? It simply does not happen. . . . The
most likely scenario is that these firms will just hover some-
where in the middle." This is clear base-rate thinking. For most
people, suroi,uorship bias (chapter 1) is one of the causes for their
base-rate neglect. They tend to see only the successful indi-
viduals and companies because the unsuccessful cases are not
reported (or underreported). This rirakes them neglect the large
part ofthe "invisible" cases.

84

Imagine you are sampling wine in a re
guess from which country it is. The label
ered. If like me, you are not a wine connr
line you have is the base rate. You knou.l
about three-quarters of the wines on the
origin, so reasonably, yort guess France, e
Chilean or Californian twist.
Sometimes I have the dubious honor ,
of students of elite business schools. Whr
their career prospects, most answer that, i
they see themselves on the boards of glob
ago, both my fellow students and I gave tl
rvay I see it, my role is to give students a ba
"With a degree from this school, your char
on the board of a Fortune 500 company is 1,
)rlo matter how smart and ambitious you
scenario is that you will end up in middle r
this, I earn shocked looks and tell mr.sei
r small contribution toward mitigating t
;rises.

