ag ClearLy

w-r.zte neglect plays an important role' For
; can point (among others) to a viral infec-
or- Horvever,viralinfections are much more
ror,i.s, they have a higher base rate), so doc-
for these first before testing for tumors. This
[n rnedical school, residents spend a lot of
-raft neglect The motto drummed into any
in the United States is: "When you hear
on, don't expect to see azebtar" which means:
st like\'ailments before you start diagnosing
:n if vou are a specialist in that. Doctors are
als u'ho enjoy this base-rate training.
r peopie in business are exposed to base-rate
I then I see high-flying entrepreneurs'busi-
t very excited by their products, ideas, and
en catch myself thinking: This could be the
r glance at the base rate brings me back down
,biliq'that a firm will survive the first five
L So u.hat, then, is the probability that they
ohal corporation? Almost zero.Watten BuF
d rt'hv he does not invest in biotech compa-
of these companies make revenues of several
Jollarsi It simply does not happen' . ' ' The
ri,o is that these firms will just hover some-
lk.- This is clear base-rate thinking. For most
rp bias (chapter 1) is one ofthe causes for their
Thev tend to see only the successful indi-
nnies because the unsuccessful cases are not
rreported). This makes them neglect the laige
ble- cases.

fi,olf ]}obelli

Imagine you are sampling wine in a restaurant and have to
guess from which country it is. The label of the bottle is cov-
ered. If like me, you are not a wine connoisseur, the only life-
line you have is the base rate. You know from experience that
about three-quarters of the wines on the menu arc of French
origin, so reasonably, you guess France, even ifyou suspect a
Chilean or Californian twist.
Sometimes I have the dubious honor of speaking in front
of students of elite business schools. When I ask them about
their career prospects, most answer that, in the medium term,
they see themselves on the boards of global companies. Years
ago, both my fellow students and I gave the same answer. The
rvay I see it, my role is to give students a base-rate crash course:
"With a degree from this school, your chance of landing a spot
on the board of a Fortune 500 company is less than 0.1 percent.
No matter how smart and ambitious you are, the most 1ike1y
scenario is that you will end up in middle management." With
this, I earn shocked looks and tell myself that I have made
a small contribution toward mitigating their future midlife
crises.

85

