rcing Force of the Universe" Is
cJ-

- of 1913, something incredible happened
rio. Crogds gathered around a roulette table
r beiier-e their eyes. The ball had landed on
- i:r a rorv. Many players took advantage of
:rd :mmediately put their money on red. But
I ro come to rest on black. Even more people
ie ro bet on red. It had to change eventually!
r-et again-and again and again. It was not
serenth spin that the ball eventually landed
:e. rhe plavers had bet millions on the table.
i.e *-heel, they were bankrupt.
lof pupils in a big city is 100. To investigate
:rdon sample of fifty students. The first child
-of 150. What will the average IQof your
llost peopie guess 100. Somehow, they think
:rt student will be balanced out-perhaps,by
n-irh an lQof 50 or by two below-average
5 oi ,5. But with such a small sample, that is

H,*!f 1]abeM

very unlikely. We must expect that the remaining forty-nine
students will represent the average of the population, so they
will each have an average IQof 100. Forty-nine times L00 plus
one IQof 150 gives us an average of 101 in the sample.
The Monte Carlo example and the IQexperiment show
that people believe in the "balancing force of the universe."
This is the gambler'sfallacy. However, with independent events,
there is no harmonizingforce at work: A ball cannot remember
how many times it has landed on black. Despite this, one of
my friends enters the weekly Mega Millions numbers into a
spreadsheet, and then plays those that have appeared the least.
A11 this work is for naught. He is another victim of the gam-
bler'sfallacy.
The following joke illustrates this phenomenon: A mathe-
matician is afraid of flying due to the small risk of a terrorist at-
tack. So, on every flight he takes a bomb with him in his hand
luggage. "The probability of having a bomb on the plane is very
low," he reasons, "and the probability of having two bombs on
the same plane is virtually zero!"
A coin is flipped three times and lands on heads on each
occasion. Suppose someone forces you to spend thousands of
dollars of your own money betting on the next toss. Would you
bet on heads or tails? If you think like most people, you will
choose tails, although heads is just as likely. the gambler's fal-
lacyleads us to believe that something must change.
A coin is tossed fifty times, and each time it lands on heads.
-\gain, with someone forcing you to bet, do you pick heads or
tails? Now that youVe seen an example or two, you're wise to
the game: You know that it could go either way. But we've just
.ome across another pitfall: the classic ddfarmation prafessioru-

