?h* Art of Thiaking etrear''ly

nelle (professional oversight; see chapter 92) of mathematicians:
Common sense would tell you that heads is the wiser choice,
since the coin is obviously loaded.
In chapter 79, we looked at regression to mean. An example:
If you are experiencing record cold where you 1ive, it is likely
that the temperature will return to normal values over the next
few days. If the weather functioned like a casino, there would
be a 50 percent chance that the temperature would rise and a 50
percent chance that it would drop. But the weather is not like
a casino. Complex feedback mechanisms in the atmosphere
ensure that extremes balance themselves out. In other cases,
however, extremes intensify. For example, the rich tend to get
richer. A stock that shoots up creates its own demand to a cer-
tain extent, simply because it stands out so much-a sort of
reverse compensation effect.
So, take a closer look at the independent and interdepen-
dent events around you. Purely independent events really only
exist at the casino, in the lotterg and in theory. In real life, in
the financial markets and in business, with the weather and
your health, events are often interrelated. What has already
happened has an influence on what will happen. As comfort-
ing an idea as it is, there is simply no balancing force out there
for independent events. "What goes around, comes around"
simply does not exist.

11 /1
JU

88

Why the Wheel of Fortune Makes

Spin
The Anchor

hen was Abraham Lincoln
know the year off the top of'
smartphone battery has just

::iswer this? Perhaps you know that he ii
::e Civil War in the 1860s and that he u-as
i:nt to be assassinated. Looking at the L
-,\ ashington, you don't see a young, energ
::-ing more akin to a worn-out sixty-year-o
:-rrial must depict him at the height of his
r::he age of sixty. Let's assume that he u-a,
--:C-1860s, making 1805 our estimate for ti
lbe correct answer is 1809.) So how did. ,
'::nd an anchor to help us-the year 186-;-
:--:re to an educated guess.
\Vhenever we have to guess somethina.
t'l:ssissippi River, population densitr. in R-
- -.-lear power plants in France-we use ,;,:,
..:lethingwe are sure of andventure inrt '

