nra
-i Ll



Whythe "Balancing Force of the Universe" Is
Baloney
Gambler's Fallacy

n the summer of 1913, something incredible happened
in Monte Carlo. Crowds gathered around a roulette table
and could not believe their eyes. The ball had landed on

black twenty times in a row. Many players took advantage of
the opportunity and immediately put their money on red. But
the ball continued to come to rest on black. Even more people
flocked to the table to bet on red. It had to change eventually!
But it was black yet again-and again and again. It was not
until the twenty-seventh spin that the ball eventually landed
on red. By that time, the players had bet millions on the table.
In a few spins of the wheel, they were bankrupt.

The average IQof pupils in a big city is 100. To investigate
this, you take a random sample of fifty students. The first child
tested has an IQof 150. What will the average IQof your
fifty students be? Most people guess 100. Somehow, they think
that the super-smart student will be balanced out-perhaps by
a dismal student with an IQof'50 or by two below-average
students with IQ of 75. But with such a small sample, that is

very unlikely. We must expect that the r
students will represent the average of thr
will each have an average IQof 100. Forrr
one IQof 150 gives us an average of 101 i
The Monte Carlo example and the 1
that people believe in the "balancing fo
This is the gambler'sfollacy. However, with
there is no harmonizingforce at work: A b
how many times it has landed on black.
my friends enters the weekly Mega lVliil
spreadsheet, and then plays those that har
-\11 this work is for naught. He is anothe
bler'sfollacy.
The following joke illustrates this phe
matician is afraid of flyirrg due to the smal
iack. So, on every flight he takes a bomb r
-uggage. "The probability of having a bom
-orv," he reasons, "and the probability of h
:he same plane is virtually zero!"
A coin is flipped three times and lan,
rccasion. Suppose someone forces you to
jollars of your own money betting on the
"--et on heads or tailsi If you think like n
.iloose tails, although heads is just as likt
.-;.1, leads us to believe that something mu
A coin is tossed fifty times, and each ti
-\gain, with someone forcing you to bet.
:-:.ils? Now that youVe seen an example o
::re game: You know that it could go eithe
:-rme across another pitfall: the classic ;,

