The Art r:f Thlnt<ing Ctr*arly

from there. How else could we do it? Just pick a number offthe
top of our heads? That would be irrational.
Unfortunately, we also use anchors when we dont need to.
For example, one day in a lecture, a professor placed a bottle of
wine on the table. He asked his students to write down the last
two digits of their Social Security numbers and then decide
if they would be willing to spend that amount on the wine. In
the auction that followed, students with higher numbers bid
nearly twice as much as students with lower numbers. The So-
cial Security digits worked as an anchor-albeit in a hidden and
misleading way.
The psychologist Amos tersky conducted an experiment
involving a wheel of fortune. He had participants spin it, and
afterward theywere asked how many member states the United
Nations has. Their guesses confirmed the anchor effect: The
highest estimates came from people who had spun high num-
bers on the wheel.
Researchers Russo and Shoemaker asked students in what
year Attila the Hun suffered his crushing defeat in Europe.
Just like the example with Social Security numbers, the par-
ticipants were anchored-this time with the last few digits of
their telephone number. The result? People with higher num-
bers chose later years and vice versa. (If you were wondering,
Attila's demise came about in 453.)
Another experiment: Students and professional real es-
tate agents were given a tour of a house and asked to estimate
its value. Beforehand, they were informed about a (randomly
generated) listed sales price. As pight be expected, the anchor
influenced the students: The higher this price, the higher they
valued the property. And the professionals? Did they value

90

the house objectively? No, they were sirr
the random anchor amount. The more un
something-such as real estate, compail
more susceptible even exPerts are to anchoi
Anchors abound, and we all clutch at
mended retail price" printed on many prod
than an anchor. Sales professionals know t
price at an early stage-long before thev
it has been proven that ifteachers know s
it influences how they will mark new wc
grades act as a starting point.
In my early yearc,I had a quick stint I
My boss was a pro when it came to usinp
conversation with any client, he made su
price, which, by the way, almost crimina
ternal costs: "I'11 tell you this now so you'rr
r-ou receive the quote, Mr. So-and-So: !
a similar project for one of your competit
range of five million dollars." the ancba
price negotiations started at exactly five m

