:iog Cleariy

alse could we do it? Just pick a number offthe
ftat rvould be irrational.
, we also :use anchors when we don't need to.
dzr- in a lecture, a professor placed a bottle of
, He asked his students to write down the last
ir Social Security numbers and then decide
rilling to spend that amount on the wine' In
fullorved, students with higher numbers bid
urh as students with lower numbers. The So-
s worked as an anchor-albeit in a hidden and

;ist Amos tersky conducted an experiment
I of fornrne. He had participants spin it, and
:re asked how many member states the United
:ir guesses confirmed the anchor effect: The
;cerne from people who had spun high num-
L
lusso and Shoemaker asked students in what
{un sufrered his crushing defeat in Europe.
mple u,ith Social Security numbers, the par-
c[ored-this time with the last few digits of
nrmber. The result? People with higher num-
iears and vice versa. (If you were wondering,
rme about in 453.)
eriment: Students and professional real es-
given a tour of a house and asked to estimate
hand, they were informed about a (randomly
sales price. As might be expected, the anclor
udents: The higher this price, the higher they
errr-. And the professionals? Did they value

I?,r:lf 0obeili

the house objectively? No, they were similarly influenced by
the random ancltor amount. The more uncertain the value of
something-such as real estate, company stock, or art-the
more susceptible even experts areto anchors.
Anchors abound, and we all clutch at them. The "recom-
mended retail price" printed on many products is nothing more
than an ancbor. Sales professionals know they must establish a
price at an early stage-long before they have an offer. Also,
it has been proven that ifteachers know students' past grades,
it influences how they will mark new work. The most recent
grades act as a starting point.
In my early years, I had a quick stint at a consulting firm.
My boss was a pro when it came to using anchors.In his first
conversation with any client, he made sure to fix an opening
price, which, by the way, almost criminally exceeded our in-
ternal costs: "I'11 tell you this now so you're not surprised when
vou receive the quote, Mr. So-and-So: We've just completed
a similar project for one of your competitors and it was in the
range of five million dollars." the anchor was dropped: The
price negotiations started at exactly five mi11ion.

91

