rg CiearlY
renight; see chapter 92) of mathematicians:
uld rel1 vou that heads is the wiser choice,
riouslr- loaded.
e looked at regression to ntean- An example:
cing record cold where you live, it is likely
r rri1l return to normal values over the next
ather functioned like a casino, there would
nce that the temperature would rise and a 50
t it rvould drop. But the weather is not like
r feedback mechanisms in the atmosphere
rs balance themselves out. In other cases,
intensifr. For example, the rich tend to get
t shoots up creates its own demand to a cer-
,- because it stands out so much-a sort of

bn effect.
er look at the independent and interdePen-
I vou. Purely independent events really only
, in the lottery, and in theory. In real life, in
rets and in business, with the weather and
ts are often interrelated' What has already
infuence on what will happen. As comfort-
, there is simply no balancing force out there
r$ents. "What goes around, comes around"
rist.

30

Why the Wheel of Fortune Makes Our Heads
Spin
The Anchor

hen was Abraham Lincoln born? If you dont
know theyear offthe top of your head, and your
smartphone battery has just died, how do you

inswer this? Perhaps you know that he was president during
:.re Civil War in the 1860s and that he was the first U.S. presi-
jent to be assassinated. Looking at the Lincoln Memorial in
\\hshingtonr you don't see a young, energetic man but some-
iing more akin to a worn-out sixty-year-old veteran. fhe me-
=orial must depict him at the height of his political power, say,
;: the age of sixty. Let's assume that he was assassinated in the
=id-1860s, making 1805 our estimate for the year he was born.
The correct answer is 1809.) So how did we work it out? We
: rund an ancbor to help us-the year 1865-and worked from
:here to an educated guess.
Whenever we have to guess something-the length of the
\Iississippi River, population density in Russia, the number of
:-uclear power plants in France-we :use anchors. We start with
-:mething we are sure of and venture into unfamiliar territory

