Feople of Their Millions

r:ls a qoose. At first, the shy animal is hesi-
dcrine: 'What's going on here? Why is he
re?- This continues for a few more weeks
re goose s skepticism gives way. After a few
b zure: -The farmer has my best interests at
onal darjs feeding confirms this. Fully con-
;bener-olence, the goose is amazedwhen he
rclosure on Christmas Day-and slaughters
goose feli victim to inductioe thinking, the
' unir-ersal certainties from individual obser-
er Dar-ld Hume used this allegory back in
run- ro rvarn of its pitfalls. However, it's not
*rreptible to it.
ls shares in stock X. The share price rockets,
ren'. -Probably a bubble," he suspects. As
s to rise, even after months, his apprehen-
iEment: *This stock may never come downo"
er]- da)- this is the case. After half a year, he
ings in it, turning a blind eye to the huge

E c;llf Ilch*i1i

;iuster risk this poses. Later, the man will pay for his foolish
ivestment. He has falien hook, 1ine, and sinker for induction.
Inductive thinking doesnt have to be a road to ruin, though.
nn iact, you can make a fortune with it by sending a few e-mails.
F{ere's how: Put together two stock market forecasts-one pre-
icting that prices will rise next month and one warning of a
irop. Send the first mail to fifty thousand people and the sec-
:nd mail to a different set of fifty thousand. Suppose that after
:re month, the indices have fallen. Now you can send another
:-mail, but this time only to the fifty thousand people who re-
::ir-ed a correct prediction. fhese fifty thousand you divide into
:.ro groups: The first half learns that prices will increase next
-:onth, and the second half discovers they will fall. Continue
:oing this. After ten months, around a hundred people will
-main, all of whom you have advised impeccably. From their
:erspective, you are a genius. You have proven that you are
:-.rl'r. in possession of prophetic powers. Some of these people
rill trust you with their money. Take it and start a new life in
Srazil.
However, it's not just naive strangers who get deceived
:: this way; we constantly trick ourselves, too. For example,
:eople who are rarely ill consider themselves immortal. CEOs
"r-ho announce increased profits in consecutive quarters deem
:::tmselves infallible-their employees and shareholders do,
::":. I once had a friend who was a base jumper. He jumped
:iciiffs, antennae, and buildings, pulling the rip cord only at
-::e last minute. One day, I brought up how risky his chosen
,ieort is. He replied quite matter-oFfactly: "I've over a thousand
r-:nps under my be1t, and nothing has ever happened to me."
Tuo months later, he was dead. It happened when he jumped

93

