d?'i
qJL

irster risk this poses. Later, the man x
:rl estment. He has fallen hook, line, anc
Inductir.te thinking doesnt have to be a
i: tact, you can make a fortune with it br- i
Flere's how: Put together two stock -rrk,
i;ting that prices will rise next month i
::op. Send the first mail to fifty thousanr
:qrd mail to a dift-erent set of fifty thousan
:ne month, the indices have fallen. Norv,

*nail, but this time only to the fifty thot
::ir-ed a correct prediction. These fifty thor
:r-o groups: fhe first half learns that pric
=onth, and the second half discover, ,h.
:,:ing this. After ten months, around a l
=rrain, all of whom you have advised im;
lerspective, you are a genius. you have 1
:-Jv in possession of prophetic powers. S,
ril trusr you with their money. Take it an
3:azii.
However, it's not just naive strangers
''- this way; we constantly trick ourselr.es
xople who are rarely ill consider themselu
rio announce increased profits in consecr
;emselves infallible-their employees an
no. I once had a friend who was a base jr
:dcliffs, antennae, and buildings, pulling r
::e last minute. One day, I brought ,rp io
Brft is. He replied quite matter_of_factlr_: -I
f=pr under my belt, and nothing has er.er
T'iro months later, he was dead. It happene,

How to Relieve People of Their Millions

Induction

farmer feeds a goose. At first, the shy animal is hesi-
tant, wondering: "What's going on here? Why is he
feeding me?" This continues {or a {ew more weeks

until, eventually, the goose's skepticism gives way. After a few
months, the goose is sure: "The farmer has my best interests at
heart." Each additional day's feeding confirms this. Fully con-
vinced of the man's benevolence, the goose is amazedwhen he
takes it out of its enclosure on Christmas Day-and slaughters
it. The Christmas goose fell victim to inductive thinking, the
inclination to draw universal certainties from individual obser-
vations. Philosopher David Hume used this allegory back in
the eighteenth century to warn of its pitfalls. However, it,s not
just geese that are susceptible to it.
An investor buys shares in stock X. The share price rockets,
and at first he is wary. "Probably a bubble," he suspects. As
the stock continues to rise, even after months, his apprehen-
sion turns into excitement: "This stock may never come down,"
especially since every day this is the case. After half a year, he
invests his life savings in it, turning a blind eye to the huge

