iing Clearly


'we ltar loss more than we value gain. Losing
BrEeter amount of happiness than the delight
'I gave vou $100. In fact, it has been proven
, e loss 'rveighs" about twice that of a similar
tiss cail this /ass attersion.
ro, if 'r'ou want to convince someone about
: focus on the advantages; instead highlight
n dodge the disadvantages. Here is an exam-
ign promoting breast self:examination (BSE):
rflets rvere handed out to women. Pamphlet
rch shorvs that women who do BSE have an
of finding a tumor in the early, more treat-
lisease.- Pamphlet B said: Research shows that
not do BSE have a decreased chance of find-
Le earh-, more treatable state of the disease."
acl that pamphlet B (written in a "loss frame")
centh more awareness and BSE behavior than
tten in a "gain frame").
xing something motivates PeoPle more than
einine something of equal value. Suppose your
r in<ulation. The most effective way of encour-
to purchase your product is to tell them how
s-r are losing without insulation-as opposed
msr- thev would save with it, even though the
r the same.
'zr"ersion is also found on the stock market,
tend to simply ignore losses on paper. After
d loes isn't as painful as a rcalized one. So they
, er-en if the chance of recovery is small 'and
f further decline is large. I once met a man, a

Roll Dobelli

=rultimillionaire, who was terribly upset because he had rost a
$100 bill. what a waste of emotion! I pointed out that the value
:fhis portfolio fluctuated by at least $100 every second.
Management gurus push employees in large companies to
:e bolder and more entrepreneurial. The reality is: Employ-
-"s tend to be risk averse. From their perspective, this aversion
:nakes perfect sense: Why risk something that brings them, at
5est, a nice bonus, and at worst, a pink slip? The downside is
irger than the upside. In almost all companies and situations,
;afeguarding your career trumps any potential reward. So, if
'.ou've been scratching your head about the lack of risk taking
lmong your employees, you now know why. (However, if em-
:loyees do take big risks, it is often when they can hide behind
;'roup decisions. Learn more in chapter 33 on social toafng.)
We can't fight it: Evil is more powerful and more plentiful
-jran good. We are more sensitive to negative than to positive
:hings. On the street, scary faces stand out more than smiling
:nes. We remember bad behavior longer than good-except, of
:ourse, when it comes to ourselves.

97

