?h* Art *f Ti:inking Ciearly

So, no wonder we fear loss more than we value gain. Losing
$100 costs yolr a greater amount of happiness than the delight
you would feel if I gave you $L00. In fact, it has been proven
that, emotionally, a loss "weighs" about twice that of a similar
gain. Social scientists call this loss aversion.
For this reason, if you want to convince someone about
something, don't focus on the advantages; instead highlight
how it helps them dodge the disadvantages. Here is an exam-
ple from a campaign promoting breast selFexamination (BSE):
Two different leaflets were handed out to women. Pamphlet
A urged: "Research shows that women who do BSE have an
increased chance of finding a tumor in the early, more treat-
able state of the disease." Pamphlet B said: Research shows that
\romen who do not do BSE have a decreased chance of find-
ing a tumor in the early, more treatable state of the disease."
The study revealed that pamphlet B (written in a "loss frame")
generated significantly more awareness and BSE behavior than
pamphlet A (written in a "gain frame").
The fear of losing something motivates people more than
the prospect of gaining something of equal value. Suppose your
business is home insulation. The most effective way of encour-
aging customers to purchase your product is to tell them how
much money they are losing without insulation-as opposed
to how much money they would save with it, even though the
amount is exactly the same.
This type of aversion is also found on the stock market,
where investors tend to simply ignore losses on paper. After
all, anrnrealized loss isn't as painful as a realized one. So they
sit on the stock, even if the chahce of recovery is small and
the probability of further decline is 1arge. I once met a man, a

96

::ultimillionaire, who was terribly upset
$100 bill. What a waste ofemotion! ipoin
:.: his portfolio fluctuate d,by atl.rrt $t00
\,lanagement gurus push employees ir
:e bolder and more entrepreneurial. The
:t"i tend to be risk averse. From their persl
=rlies perfect sense: Why risk something
}r-(t, a nice bonus, and at worst, a pink sJ
;:zer than the upside. In almost ,li.ornp
;,a:eguarding your career trumps any por(
r,:u\'e been scratching your head aboui th
Erong your employees, you now know ufi
:i.rr ees do take big risks, it is often when tl
raup decisions. Learn more in chapter 3-i
\\re cant fight it: Evil is more powerfui
=rn good. We are more sensitive to negat
=rgs. On the street, scary faces stand our
mes. We remember bad behavior longer tha
xr-rse, when it comes to ourselves.

