
##

crease. This isnt surprising. What is note
that our input doesnt grind to a complete
us from putting our feet up and letting the
ivork? The consequences. Zerc performanc
end it brings with it weighty punishmentr
:iom the group or vilification. Evolution hr
nany fine-tuned senses, including how mt
zet away with and how to recognize it in ot
Social loafng does not occur solely in ph
\\'e slack offmental1y, too. For example, in r
:ire team, the weaker our individual parri
rnce a certain number of participants are ir
::iance plateaus. Whether the group consisr
:undred people is not important-maximu
a;hieved.

One question remains: Who came ul
---.ented idea that teams achieve more thar
::=i Maybe the Japanese. T,hirty years ago, l
:arkets with their products. Business econc
u.ely at the industrial miracle and sarv tl
:r: were organized into teams. This model
:i:-xed success. What worked very well in J
:-licated with the Americans and Europr
a;e social loafng rarely happens there. Ir
:;-ction better if and only if they are small

ni;cjr groups, individual performances can
.,"-l specialist.
Srial loal€ng has interesting implicatior
:re.*j to hold back not only in terms of par

WhyTeams AreLazy

Social Loafing

aximilian Ringelmann, a French engineer, studied
the performance of horses rn7973. He concluded
that the power of two animals pulling a coach did

not equal twice the power of a single horse. Surprised by this
result, he extended his research to humans. He had several men
pull a rope and measured the force applied by each individual.
On average, if two people were pulling together, each invested
just 93 percent of his individual strength, when three pulled to-
gether, it was 85 percent, and with eight people, just 49 percent.
Science calls this the social loaf.ng effect.It occurs when in-
dividual performance is not directly visible; it blends into the
group effort. ft occurs among rowers, but not in relay races,
because here, individual contributions are evident. Social loafng
is rational behavior: Why invest all of your energy when half
will do especially when this little shortcut goes unnoticedi
Qrite simply, social loafng is a form of cheating of which we
are all guilty even if it takes place unconsciously, just as it does
with the horses. I
When people work together, individual performances de-

