rcI,azy

rilian Ringelmann, a French engineer, studied
rformance of horses in 1913. He concluded
the pon'er of rwo animals pulling a coach did
fie pon-er of a single horse. Surprised by this
d his research to humans. He had several men
nca-.ured the force applied by each individual'
rc people were pulling together, each invested
fhi.. individual strength, when three pulled to-
pcrcent, and with eight people, just 49 Percent'
this the social loaf.ng effect. It occurs when in-
unce is not directly visible; it blends into the
(xcurs among rowers, but not in relay races,
liridual contributions are evident. Sacial loaf'ng
rirc \\'hv invest all of your energy when half
rlh- n-hen this little shortcut goes unnoticed?
riat toa-fng is a form of cheating of which we
cn if it takes place unconsciously, just as it does
le rr-ork together, individual performanct' Ot-

H,olf Ilohelli

crease. This isn't surprising. What is noteworthy, however, is
that our input doesn't grind to a complete halt. So what stops
us from putting our feet up and letting the others do the hard
rvorki The consequences. Zerc performance would be noticed,
end it brings with it weighty punishments, such as exclusion
:iom the group or vilification. Evolution has 1ed us to develop
:nany fine-tuned senses, including how much idleness we can
zet away with and how to recognize it in others.
Social loafng does not occur solely in physical performance.
\\re slack offmentally, too. For example, in meetings, the larger
:he team, the weaker our individual participation. However,
,rnce a certain number of participants are involved, our perfor-
::rance plateaus. Whether the group consists of twenty or one
:rundred people is not important-maximum inertia has been
;chieved.

One question remains: Who came up with the much-
','aunted idea that teams achieve more than individual work-
:rsi Maybe the Japanese. Ttrirty years ago, they flooded global
=arkets with their products. Business economists looked more
:-osely at the industrial miracle and saw that Japanese facto-
::rs were organized into teams. This model was copied-with
::-xed success. What worked very well in Japan could not be
-plicated with the Americans and Europeans-perhaps be-
:;ase social loafng rurely happens there. In the West, teams
:;rction better if and only if they are small and consist of di-
t:se, specialized people. This makes sense, because within
;;ch groups, individual performances can be traced back to
*;h specialist.
Social loafng has interesting implications. In groups, we
e--ed to hold back not only in terms of participation but also

99

