T}:e Art *f Thirthing Cl**rly

were mostly of the linear variety. Whoever spent twice the time
collecting berries earned double the amount. Whoever huntec
two mammoths instead of one could eat for twice as long. In
the Stone Age, people rarely came across exponentiai growth.
Today, things are different.
"Each year, the number of traffic accidents rises by 7 per-
cent," warns a politician. Let's be honest: We don't intuitivelr'
understand what this means. So, let's use a trick and calculate
the "doubling time." Start with the magic number of 70 ani
divide it by the growth rate in percent. In this instance: 70 di-
vided by 7 = 10 years. So what the politician is saying is: "The
number of traffic accidents doubles every ten years." Pretn-
alarming. (You may ask: "Why the number 70?" This has to do
with a mathematical concept called logarithm. You can look i:
up in the notes section.)
Another example: "Inflation is at 5 percent." Whoever hears
this thinks: "That's not so bad, what's 5 percent anyway?" Let =
quickly calculate the doubling time: 70 divided by 5 = 14 year:.
In fourteen years, a dollar will be worth only half what it ii
today-a catastrophe for anyone who has a savings account'
Suppose you are a journalist and learn that the number ol
registered dogs in your city is rising by 10 percent ayear.Whicl:
headline do you put on your article? Certainly not: "Dog Reg-
istrations Increasing by 10 Percent." No one will care. Instead.
announce: "Deluge of Dogs: Twice as Many Mutts in Seven
Years'Time!"
Nothing that grows exPonentially grows forever. Most poli-
ticians, economists, and journalists forget that. Such growtl
will eventually reach a limit. Guaranteed. For example, the in-
testinal bacterium Escherichia coli divides every twenty minute=-

102

h just a few days, it could cover the whole
:Jnsumes more oxygen and sugar than is ar
,:as a cutoffpoint.
The ancient Persians were well aware thi
,'ith percentage growth. Here is a local ta
. rvise courtier who presented the king v
I'loved by the gift, the king said to him: -'
:,:ank you." "Your highness, I want nothing
: - cover the chess board with rice, putting o
:--e first square, and then on every subseqr
::-: previous number of grains." The king ri-a
i:- honor to you, dear courtier, that you pres
-=ruest." But how much rice is that? The kir
,"::k. Only when his servants began the tasl
:: the first square, two grains of rice on the s
r:iins of rice on the third, and so on-did
, ,:ld need more rice than was growing on t
\\rhen it comes to growth rates, do not rr
:'. : don't have any. Accept it. What reallr.h
r. '"r-ith low growth rates, the magic number

