nthusiasm
se

the 1950s. A piece ofland is being auctioned'
. cornpanies are vying for it. Each has made an
:e oi horv much the site is worth. The lowest as-
) millisn, and the highest is $100 million' The
e climbs during the auction, the more firms exit
nalh'. one company submits the highest bid and
gne corks pop.
s ir..-,; suggests that the winner of an auction oF
o be the loser. Industry analysts have noted that
rt requiarly emerged as winning bidders from
ructions systematically paid too much and years
kr. This is understandable. If the estimates van-
nillion and $100 mi11ion, the actual value most
eritere in the middle. The highest bid at an auc-
ruch too high-unless these bidders have critical
thers are not Pri\ry to. This was not the case in
managers actually celebrated a Pyrrhic victory'
, ph..ro-.rron affects us all. From eBay to t]'oo-
: -{C\\brds, prices are consistently set by auction-

Itctlf Dob*3li

tsidding wars for cell-phone frequencies drive telecom compa_
nies to the brink of bankruptcy. Airports rent out their com_
mercial spaces to the highest bidder. And if walmart plans to
introduce a new detergent and asks for tenders from five sup_
pliers, that's nothing more than an auction_with the risk of
ihe usinner's curse.

fhe auctioning of everyd aylifehas now reached tradesmen,
ioo, thanks to the fnternet. When my walis needed a new lick
of paint, instead of tracking down the handiest painter, I ad_
r-ertised the job online. Thirty painters from more than three
hundred miles away competed for the job. The best offer was so
low that, out of compassion, I could not accept it_to spare the
poor painter the ztsinner,s curse.
Initial public offerings (IpO, are also examples of auctions.
-\nd when companies buy other companies_the infamous
mergers and acquisitions-the utinner,s curse is present more
often than not. Astoundingly more than half of alt acquisirions
destroy value, according to a McKinsey study.
So why do we fall victim to the ztsinner,s curse? First, the
real value of many things is uncertain. Additionally, the more
interested parties, the greater the likelihood of an overly en_
thusiastic bid. Second, we want to outdo competitors. A friend
owns a micro-antenna factory and told me about the cutthroat
bidding war that Apple instigated during the development of
the iPhone. Everyone wants to be the official supplier io Appl.,
even though whoever gets the contract is likely to tor. _or.y.
So how much would you pay for $100t Imagine that you
and an opponent are invited to take part in such an auction.
The rules: Whoever makes the highest offer gets the $100 bili,
and-most important-when this happens, both bidders have

105

