;:$S

Curb Your Enthusiasm
Winner's Curse

exas in the 1950s. A piece ofland is being auctioned
Ten oil companies are r'ying for it. Each has made an
estimate of how much the site is worth' The lowest as-

sessment is $10 million, and the highest is $100 million' The
higher the price climbs during the auction, the more firms exit
tne uiading. Finally, one company submits the highest bid and
wins. Champagne corks PoP.
the vLinner's cl,ffse suggests that the winner of an auction of-
ten tufns out to be the loser. Industry analysts have noted that
companies that regularly emerged as winning bidders from
these oil field auctions systematically paid too much and years
later went under. This is understandable. If the estimates van'
between $10 million and $100 million, the actual value most
likely lies somewhere in the middle. The highest bid at an auc-
tion is often much too high-uniess these bidders have critical
information others are not privy to' This was not the case in
Texas. The oil managers actua,lly celebrated a Pyrrhic victory'
Today, this phenomenon affects us all' From eBay to Grou-
pon to Google AdWords, prices are consistently set by auction-

Bidding wars for cell-phone frequencies
nies to the brink of bankruptcy. Airport
mercial spaces to the highest bidder. Anr
introduce a new detergent and asks for tr
pliers, thatt nothing more than an aucti
the zainner\ curse.
fhe auctioning of everyd aylifehas nor
too, thanks to the Internet. When my 11,a
of paint, instead of tracking down the hz
vertised the job online. Thirty painters ft
hundred miles away competed for the job.
low that, out of compassion, I could not ac
poor painter the utinner's curse.
Initial public offerings (IpOs) are also e
And when companies buy other compa
mergers and acquisitions-the v)inner's ct
often than not. Astoundingly, more than hr
destroy value, according to a McKinsey stl
So why do we fall victim to the u:inn
real value of many things is uncertain. Ad
interested parties, the greater the likeliho
thusiastic bid. Second, we want to outdo cc
owns a micro-antenna factory and told me
bidding war that Apple instigated during
the iPhone. Everyone wants to be the officia
ercn though whoever gets the contract is lil
So how much would you pay for $100:
and an opponent are invited to take parr i
fhe rules: Whoever makes the highesi offer
and-most important-when this happens.

