Th* ,{rt of ?trinki*g Cl*arl3r

his true opinion. They falsely attributed the content of the
speech to his character and ignored the external factors-in
this case, the professors who had crafted the text.
the fundamental attribution error is particularly useful for
whittling negative events into neat little packages. For ex-
ample, the "blame" for wars we lazily push onto individuals:
The Yugoslav assassin in Sarajevo has World War I on his con-
science, and Hitler singlehandedly caused World War II. Man-
swallow these simplifications, even though wars are unforesee-
able events whose innumerable dynamics we may never fullr
understand. Which sounds a little like financial rnarkets and
climate issues, don't you agree?
We see this same pattern when companies announce good
or bad results. A1l eyes shift to the CEO's oifice, even if 'r.r'e
know the truth: Economic success depends far more on the
overall economic climate and the industry's attractiveness than
on brilliant leadership. It is interesting how frequently firms
in ailing industries replace their CEOs-and how seldom that
happens in booming sectors. Are ailing industries less care-
ful in their recruitment processes? Such decisions are no more
rational than what happens between football coaches and their
clubs.
I often go to musical concerts. In my hometown of Lucerne.
in the center of Switzerland, I am spoiled with one-off clas-
sical recitals. During the intermission, however, I notice thar
the conversations almost always revolve around the conductors
and/or soloists. With the exception of,world premieres, compo-
sition is rurely discussed. Why not? The real miracle of music is.
atter all, the composition, the ireation of sounds, moods, anii
rhythms where previously only a blank sheet lay. The difference

108

among scores is a thousand times more irr
terence among performances of the same
think like this. The score is-in contrast l
soloists-faceless.

In my career as a fiction writer, I exper:
,zttribution errorin this way: After a read:
a debatable undertaking), the first quest:
rvays, is: "What part of your novel is autot
:bel like thundering: "It's not about me, d
':ook, the text, the language, the credibil
rnfortunately my upbringing allows such ,
We shouldn't judge those guilty of th
:tttion error too harshly. Our preoccupatic
'tems from our evolutionary past: Belon:
:recessary for survival. Reproduction, de
-arge animals*all these were impossible
:o achieve alone. Banishment meant ceru
'.r'ho opted for the solitary life-of which
:lrv-fared no better and disappeared fror
.hort, our lives depended on and revolved a
:rplains why we are so obsessed with our ti
The result of this infatuation is that we spe
:l our time thinking about other people ;
:ercent to assessing other factors and conte
In conclusion: As much as we are fascir
:ec1e of life, the people onstage are not pe
:rdividuals. Instead, they tumble from sir
,: r,ou want to understand the current plar-
::-then forget about the performers. pav cl
iance of influences to which the actors are

