i:::g clearly
. Th.) falsely attributed the content of the
aracter and ignored the external factors-in
rtrsors w'ho had crafted the text.
v:;- -ittribution error is particularly useful for
,-i e\-ents into neat little packages. For ex-
:e- rbr wars we laziiy push onto individuals:
a-.:in in Sarajevo has World War I on his con-
er singlehandedly caused World War II' Mani-
::pLitrcations, even though wars are unforesee-
-e il:rumerable dynamics we may never fullr-
r;i: sounds a little like financial markets and

l:r: \-ou agree?
:an:e pattern when companies announce good
\-,1 eres shift to the CEO's olfice, even if we
E;onomic success depends far more on the
: ilnate and the industry's attractiveness than
iership. It is interesting how frequently firms
ies :epiace their CEOs-and how seldorn that
rnir-3: sectors. Are ailing industries less care-
:itr:ent processes? Such decisions are no more
ra: heppens between football coaches and their

inusical concerts. In my hometown of Lucerne'
: Suitzerland, I am spoiled with one-off clas-
-;rirq the intermission, however, I notice that
:. irnost always revolve around the conductors
\\-i:h the exception ofworld premieres, comPo-
:stussed. Why not? The real miracle of music is'
:lpo'ition, the creation of sounds, moods, anci
srer-iouslv only a blank sheet lay. The difference

ldol{- D0bel.1i

.imong scores is a thousand times more impressive than the diF
-rrence among performances of the same score" But we do not
:hink like this. The score is-in contrast to the conductors and
:oloists-faceless.
In my career as a fiction writer, I experience thefundamental
:ttribution error in this way: After a reading (which in itserf is
r debatable undertaking), the first question always, really al-
'.r-ays, is: "What part of your novel is autobiographical?" I often
:-eel like thundering: "It's not about me, damn it! It's about the
cook, the text, the language, the credibility of the story!" But
:nfortunately my upbringing allows such outbursts only rarely.
We shouldn't judge those guilty of the fundamental attri-
tution errzr too harshly. Our preoccupation with other people
stems from our evolutionary past: Belonging to a group was
necessary for survival. Reproduction, defense, and hunting
iarge animals-all these were impossible tasks for individuals
:o achieve alone. Banishment meant certain death, and those
u,ho opted for the solitary life-of which there were surely a
ierv-fared no better and disappeared from the gene pool. In
short, our lives depended on and revolved around others, which
erplains why we are so obsessed with our fellow humans today.
The result of this infatuation is that we spend about 90 percent
of our time thinking about other people and dedicate just 10
percent to assessing other factors and contexts.
In conclusion: As much as we are fascinated with the spec-
tacle oflife, the people onstage are not perfect, self:governed
individuals. Instead, they tumble from situation to situation.
if you want to understand the current play-really understand
it-then forget about the performers. Pay close attention to the
dance of influences to which the actors are subjected.

109

