Idn't Believe in the Stork

:atltants of the Hebrides, a chain of islands
Scodand, head lice were a part of life. If the
rei: host, he became sick and feverish. There-
e ttter, sick people had lice put in their hair
::e l\'i.s a method to their madness: As soon as
:i ir again, the patient imProved.
snii'r- re.,'ealed that in each blaze, the more
i ou: to fight it, the greater the fire damage.
"eC an immediate hiring fteeze and cut the

e:.
:one tiom German physics professors Hans-
holCt and Hans-Hermann Dubben. In their
:eh :here is no English version), they illustrate
.:ause and effect. If the lice leave the invalid, it
.l. ttr-er and they simpiy get hot feet. When the
v return. And the bigger the blaze, the more

t at these stories, bttfalse causalityleads us astrav
:ir-. Consider the headline: "Employee Motiva-

I?,otrf fiohei l'i

tion Leads to Higher Corporate Profits." Does it? Mryb. people
are simply more motivated because the company is doing well.
Another headline touts that the more women on a corporate
board, the more profitable the firm is. But is that really how it
works? Or do highly profitable firms simply tend to recruit more
women to their boards? Business book authors and consultants
often operate with similar false-or at least fizzy--causalities.
In the '90s, there was no one holier than the then-head of
the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan. His obscure remarks
gave monetary policy the aura of a secret science that kept the
country on the secure path of prosperity. Politicians, journal-
ists, and business leaders idolized Greenspan. Today we know
that these commentators fell victim tofalse causality. America's
symbiosis with China, the globe's low-cost producer and ea-
ger buyer of U.S. debt, played a much more important role. In
other words, Greenspan was simply lucky that the economy did
so well during his tenure.
A further example: Scientists found that long periods in the
lospital affected patients adversely. This was music to health
insurers'ears, who, of course, are keen to make stays as brief as
:ossible. But, clearly, patients who are discharged immediately
:re healthier than those who must stay on for treatment. This
:rardly makes long stays detrimental.
Or, take this headline: "Fact: Women Who Use Shampoo
YZEvery Day Have Stronger Hair." Though the context can
:e substantiated scientifically, this statement says very little-
-tast of all, that the shampoo makes your hair stronger. It
:ight simply be the other way round: Women with strong hair
:end to use shampooXYZ-and perhaps thatt because it says
-e specially for thick hair" on the bottle.

111

