Why You Shouldn't Believe in the Stork
False Causality

Elor the inhabitants of the Hebrides, a chain of islands
Jt north of Scotland, head lice were a part of life. If the
I fice left their host, he became sick and feverish. There-
fore, to dispel the fever, sick people had lice put in their hair
intentionally. There was a method to their madness: As soon as
the lice had settled in again, the patient improved.
In one city, a study revealed that in each blaze, the more
firefighters called out to fight it, the greater the fire damage.
The mayor imposed an immediate hiring freeze and cut the
firefighting budget.
Both stories come from German physics professors Hans-
Peter Beck-Bornholdt and Hans-Hermann Dubben. In their
book (unfortunately there is no English version), they illustrate
the muddling of cause and effect. If the lice leave the invalid, it
is because he has a fever and they simply get hot feet. When the
fever breaks, they return. And the bigger the blaze, the more
firefighters were called out-not, of course, vice versa.
We may smirk at these stories, iutfalse causalityleadsus astral
practically every day. Consider the headline: "Employee Motiva-

tion Leads to Higher Corporate Profits." D,
are simply more motivated because the cor
Another headline touts that the more u-o
board, the more profitable the firm is. Bur
works? Or do highly profitable firms simplr
lvomen to their boards? Business book auti
often operate with similar false-or at leasr
In the '90s, there was no one holier thi
the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan. H
gave monetary policy the aura of a secret s
.ountry on the secure path of prosperin-. .
lsts, and business leaders idolized Greensp
:hat these commentators fell victim tofalse
.r-mbiosis with China, the globe's low-co,
;er buyer of U.S. debt, played a much mor,
rther words, Greenspan was simply luckr-ti
"r well during his tenure.
A further example: Scientists found that
:ospital affected patients adversely. This .r,
-:rsurers' ears, who, of course, are keen to m
:':ssible. But, clearly, patients who are disci
;:e healthier than those who must stay on
::.rdly makes long stays detrimental.
Or, take this headline: "F'act: Women \
-\1-Z Every Day Have Stronger Hair." Thor
:r substantiated scienti fically, this statemer
-east of all, that the shampoo makes r-ot
:::ght simply be the other way round: Wom
::::d to use shampooXYZ-and perhaps t)
'-necially for thick hair" on the bottle.

