?he Art of Thinking filearly
its stock prices and assumed the entire business was just as
brilliant-without closer investigation.
the halo efect alwaysworks the same way: We take a simple-
to-obtain or remarkable fact or detail, such as a companyt fi-
nancial situation, and extrapolate conclusions from there that
are harder to nail down, such as the merit of its management or
the feasibility of its strategy. We often ascribe success and supe-
riority where little is due, such as when we favor products from
a manufacturer simply because of its good reputation. Another
example of the halo efect: We believe that CEOs who are suc-
cessful in one industry will thrive in any sector-and further-
rnore that they are heroes in their private iives, too.
The psychologist Edward Lee Thorndike discovered the
halo ffict nearly one hundred years ago. His conclusion was
thx a single quality (e.g., beauty, social status, age) produces
a positive or negative impression that outshines everything
else, and the overall efi-ect is disproportionate. Beauty is the
best-studied example. Dozens of studies have shown that we
automatically regard good-looking people as more pleasant,
honest, and intelligent. Attractive peopie also have it easier in
their professional lives-and that has nothing to do with the
myth of (women) "sleeping their way to the top." The effect can
even be detected in schools, where teachers unconsciously give
good-looking students better grades.
Advertising has found an ally in the halo efect:Just look at
the number of celebrities smiling at us from TV ads, billboards,
and magairnes. What makes a professional tennis player like
Roger Federer a coffee machine e,xpert is sti1l open for debate,
but this hasn't detracted from the success of the campaign. We
are so used to seeing celebrities promoting arbitrary products

L74

that we never stop to consider why their s
any importance to us. But this is exactly tl
hala efect: It works on a subconscious levt
register is the attractive face, dream lifesr
-rct.
Sticking with negative effects, the ha
freat injustice and even stereotyping rvhr
Cer, or race becomes the all-encompassinr
:e neither racist nor sexist to fall victim tc
:louds our view, just as it does journalists-
:UmefS.
Occasionally, this effect has pleasant cor
::r the short term. Have you ever been hea
I: so, you know how flawless a person can
\Is. Perfect seems to be the whole packa
':qent, likable, and warm. Even when your
: -rt obvious failings, you see nothing but er
7he halo ffict obstrrcts our view of tru
: runteract this, go beyond face value. Factc
-::3 features. World-class orchestras achir
:.indidates play behind a screen, so that se.
:€,lrance play no part in their decision. To
- '* armly recommend judging a compan\-
::::n its easily obtainable quartef figure
i:eady delivers that). Dig deeper. Invest tt
--:;earch. What emerges is not always prert
:i::cational.

