ing Clearly

nd assumed the entire business was just as

I closer investigation.
ihral-s u'orks the same way: We take a simple-
,rkable fact or detail, such as a company's fi-
end extrapolate conclusions from there that
dolrn, such as the merit of its management or
s strateg,v. We often ascribe success and supe-
: is ,Jue, such as when we favor products from
mplv because of its good reputation' Another
rlo efect:We believe that CEOs who are suc-
tustrr rvill thrive in any sector-and further-
r heroes in their private lives, too'
gist Edward Lee Thorndike discovered the
one hundred years ago. His conclusion was
,lit)- (..g., beauty, social status, age) produces
gative impression that outshines everything
erall efi^ect is disproportionate' Beauty is the
mple. Dozens of studies have shown that we
gard good-looking people as more pleasant'
[ligent. Attractive peopie also have it easier in
rl lir-es-and that has nothing to do with the
)'sleeping their way to the top'" The effect can
lin schools, where teachers unconsciousiy give
udents better grades.
hes found an ally in the halo effect: Just look at
{ebrities smiling at us from TV ads, billboards'
\Yhat makes a professional tennis player like
r cofree machine expert is still open for debate'
letracted from the success of the campaign' We
;eeing celebrities promoting arbitrary products

Rolf Dokrclli

that we never stop to consider why their support should be of
any importance to us. But this is exactly the sneaky part of the
halo efect: It works on a subconscious level. All that needs to
register is the attractive face, dream lifestyle-and that prod-
uct.

Sticking with negative effects, the halo ffict can lead to
great injustice and even stereotyping when nationality, gen-
der, or race becomes the all-encompassing feature. One need
be neither racist nor sexist to fall victim to this. the hato ffict
clouds our view, just as it does journalists, educators, and con-
sumers,
Occasionally, this effect has pleasant consequences-at least
in the short term. Have you ever been head over heels in love?
If so, you know how flawless a person can appear. Your Mr. or
\{s. Perfect seems to be the whole package: attractive, intel-
ligent,likable, and warm. Even when your friends might point
out obvious failings, you see nothing but endearing quirks.
the halo ffict obstructs our view of true characteristics. To
.ounteract this, go beyond face value. Factor out the most strik-
ing features. World-class orchestras achieve this by making
;andidates play behind a screen, so that sex, race, age, and ap-
Dearance play no part in their decision. To business journalists
I warmly recommend judging a company by something other
rhan its easily obtainable quarterly figures (the stock market
rlready delivers that). Dig deeper. Invest the time to do serious
:esearch. What emerges is not always pretty, but almost always
:ducational.

115

