The Art *f Thinking Siearly

credit default swaps, thus making millions, should never forget
that they flirt with many alternatitte paths that lead straight to
ruin. To arationalmind, $10 million that comes about through
a huge risk is worth less than the same sum earned by years of
drudgery. (An accountant might disagree, though.)
Recently, I was at a dinner with an American friend who
suggested tossing a coin to decide who should pay the bill. He
lost. The situation was uncomfortable for me, since he was m\-
guest in Switzerland. "Next time I'11 pay whether here or in
New York," I promised. He thought for a moment and said,
"Consideringthe alternative paths, you've actually already paid
for half of this dinner."
In conclusion: Risk is not directly visible. Therefore, always
consider what the alternatives paths are. Success that comes
about through risky dealings is, to a rutional mind, of less
worth than success achieved the "boring" *uy (for example,
with laborious work as a lawyer, a dentist, a ski instructor, a
pilot, a hairdresser, or a consultant). Yes, looking at alternati'ue
paths ftom the outside is a difficult task, looking at them from
the inside an almost impossible task. Your brain will do everl'-
thing to convince you that your success is warranted-no mat-
ter how risky your dealings are-and will obscure any thought
ofpaths other than the one you are on.

118

+0

False Prophets
?orecast Illusion

acebook to be number one enterr.
three years."
"Regime shift in North Korea

-Sour grapes for France as Argentinia:
:': :tinate."
-Euro collapse likely."
-Low-cost space flightsby 2025."
-\o more crude oil in fifteen years."
Er-ery day, experts bombard us wirh r,
-:--":1e are theyi Until a few years ago.
--..:i. Then along came Philip Gtiock. C
,:,.:.. he evaluated 28,361, predictions fro::
:r.::ssionals. The result: In terms of accu:a
n-- marginally better than a random fore.-
-,ri*-,. the media darlings were among the
"i:r: -rf those, the worst were the prophets o
.ri:,x. Examples of their far-fetched foreca
,,:^.t of Canada, Nigeria, China,India,Incic
l":-::um, and the EU. None of these counrr

