a)aJ

Congratulations! You've Won Russian Roulette
Alternative Paths

ou arrange to meet with a Russian oligarch in a for-
est just outside your city. He arrives shortly after you,
carying a suitcase and a gun. Placing the suitcase on

the hood of his car, he opens it so you can see it is filled to the
brim with stacks of money-$1O rnillion in total. "Want to plal-
Russian roulettei" he asks. "Puil the trigger once, and all this
is yours." The revolver contains a single bullet; the other five
chambers are empty. You consider your oPtions. Ten million
dollars would change your life. You would never have to work
again. You could finally move from collecting stamPs to col-
lecting sports cars!
You accept the challenge. You put the revolver to your
temple and squeeze the trigger. You hear a faint click and feel
adrenaline flood your body. Nothing happens. The chamber
was empty! You have survived. You take the money, move to
the most beautiful city you know, and upset the locals by build-
ing a luxurious villa there.
One of these neighbors, who'se home now stands in the
shadow ofyours, is a prominent lawyer. He works twelve hours

:. day, three hundred days a year. His rates
:iot unusual: $500 per hour. Each year he i
rillion dollars net after taxes and living er
:o time, you wave to him from your drivex
rside: He will have to work for twenfl'\'e2

j-ou.
Suppose that, after twenty years, 1'our 1
:or has saved up $10 miilion. A journalist c
:rd puts together a piece on the more alflu
.:ea-comPlete with photos of the magnit
::re beautiful second wives that you and r-ot
--:ued. He comments on the interior desiE
--:.ndscaping. However, the crucial differen
:,: r'ou remains hidden from view: the ris
:.:.ch of the $10 million. For this he rvoul'

::-e alternative patbs.
But not only journalists are underachiet
;- are.
Alternative patbs are all the outcomes t
:ened but did not. With the game oi Rr
.;:irnative paths wo,tld have led to the s;
ie $10 million) and the fifth alternative tc
-:-ference. In the case of the lawyer, the po
:,rre closely together. In a village, he rvot
=rs just $200 per hour. ln the heart of \
:ce of the major investment banks, martr
$oi)O per hour. But, unlike you, he riskei
:-t rvould have cost him his fortune-or
,4lternative paths arc invisible, so \r(
,,r-- rarely. Those who speculate on junk

