ls! You'veWon Russian Roulette
hs


"ut.:Je r our city. He arrives shortly after you,
; .uitcase and a gun. Placing the suitcase on
r. he opens it so you can see it is fil1ed to the
:f ncner'-$10 million in total. "Want to play
- he asks. "Pull the trigger once, and all this
;oh-er contains a single bullet; the other five
.rn. \bu consider your options' Ten million
r.r1ge r-our 1ife. You would never have to work
. nnallr-move from collecting stamps to col-

!.
::e challenge. You put the revolver to your
:ze the trigger. You hear afaint click and feel
vour body. Nothing happens. The chamber
har-e survived. You take the money, move to
'1 ;i1-r'ou know, and upset the locals by build-
:ila there.
: :leighbors, whose home now stands in'the
, i' a prominent lawyer. He works twelve hours

I?,olf *c:l:*i1i

a day, three hundred days a year. His rates are impressive, but
not unusual: $500 per hour. Each year he can put aside half a
million dollars net after taxes and living expenses. From time
to time, you wave to him from your driveway, laughing on the
inside: He will have to work for twenty years to catch up with
)-ou.
Suppose that, after twenty years, your hardworking neigh-
'oor has saved up $10 million. A journalist comes along one day
:nd puts together a piece on the more affiuent residents in the
rrea-complete with photos of the magnificent buildings and
:he beautiful second wives that you and your neighbor have ac-
:rued. He comments on the interior design and the exquisite
andscaping. However, the crucial difference between the two
rf you remains hidden from view: the risk that lurks behind
:ach of the $10 million. For this he would need to recognize
:he alternative paths.
But not only journalists are underachievers at this skill. We
Il are.
Alternative paths are all the outcomes that could have hap-
:ened but did not. With the game of Russian roulette, four
;.ternative paths worid have led to the same result (winning
::re $10 million) and the fifth alternative to your death. A huge
jilTerence. In the case of the lawyer, the possible paths lie much
:-ore closely together. In a village, he would have earned per-
::.ps just $200 per hour. In the heart of New York working for
- re of the major investment banks, maybe it would have been
$r00 per hour. But, unlike you, he risked no alternatiae path
:::at would have cost him his fortune-or his life.
Alternati"oe paths are invisible, so we contemplate them
,:n' rarely. Those who speculate on junk bonds, options, and

t17

