ring Clearly

, iirra, of forecasters: those who don't know,
mt knorv they don't know," wrote Harvard
fuoneth Galbraith. With this he made him-
rred in his own guild. Fund manager Peter
t up even more cuttingly: "There are 60,000
:U.S., manv of them employed full-time try-
esions and interest rates, and if they could
twice in ^ tow, they'd all be millionaires by
es I knorv, most of them are sti1l gainfully
ought to tel1 us something." That was ten
the United States could employ three times
sts-uith little or no effect on the quality of

i rh2t experts enjoy free rein with few negative
thgr- strike it lucky, they enjoy publicity con-
d publication deals. If they are completely off
ce no penalties-neither in terms of financial
r in loss of reputation. This win-win scenario
izes them to churn out as many prophecies as
Indeed, the more forecasts they generate, the
cidental11, correct. Ideally, they should have to
n of 'forecasl fund"-5ay, $1,000 per predic-
lst is correct, the expert gets his money back
c is rvrong, the money goes to charity.
edictable and what is not? Some things are
: rxample, I have a rough idea of how many
igh i. a year's time. However, the more com-
I the longer the time frame, the more blurred
irrure will be. Global warming, oil prices,'or
e almost impossible to foresee. Inventions are

I?olf D*i:eiii

not at all predictable because if we knew what technology we
rvould invent in the future, we would akeady have invented it.
So, be critical when you encounter predictions. Whenever I
hear one, I make sure to smile, no matter how bleak it is. Then I
ask myself two questions. F'irst, what incentive does the expert
have? If he is an employee, could he lose his job if he is al-
rl-ays wrong? Or is he a selfappointed guru who earns a living
through books and lectures? The latter type offorecaster relies
on the media's attention so, predictably, his prophecies tend
ro be sensational. Second, how good is his success rate? How
many predictions has he made over the past five years? Out of
rhese, how many have been right and how many have not? This
urformation is vital, yet often goes unreported. I implore the
:nedia: Please dont publish any more forecasts without giving
rhe pundit's track record.
Finally, since it is so fitting, a quote from former British
rrime minister Tony Blair: "I dont make predictions. I never
lave, and I never wi11."

t2t

