-. r^lp2r']\r


Er. ,n,-,-. making millions, should never forget
h nanr- alternative paths that lead straight to
I mind. S10 million that comes about through
*i"r less than the same sum earned by years of
:ountant might disagree, though.)
LS a: a dinner with an American friend who
a coin to decide who should pay the bi1l. He
: \l-as uncomfortable for me, since he was my
a:r,i. *\ext time I'11 pay, whether here or in
::nised. He thought for a moment and said,
;. : :, rt,t t io e ? a th s, yoiv e actually already paid


Rj.k is not directly visible' Therefore, always
ft ,i-:irnati'(.)es paths are. Success that comes
l-.kr- dealings is, to a rational mind, of less
rs, achier.ed the "boring" *uy (for example,
ork'as a lawyer, a dentist, a ski instructor, a
ir. or a consultant). Yes, lookingat alternative
rtsiJe is a difficult task, looking at them from
rost impossible task. Your brain will do every-
:lou that your success is warranted-no mat-
rr ,3ea1ings are-and will obscure any thought
an the one you are on.

4ffi

False Prophets
Forecast Illusion

acebook to be number one entertainment platform in
three years."

"Regime shift in

North Korea in two years."
as Argentinian wines expected to

"Sour grapes for France
iominate."
"Euro collapse likely."

"Low-cost space flightsby 2025."
"No more crude oil in fifteen years."
Every day, experts bombard us with predictions, but how
::[able are they? Until a few years ago, no one bothered to
:reck. Then along came Philip Tetlock. Over a period of ten
',:ars, he evaluated 28,361predictions from 284 selFappointed
::ofessionals. The result: In terms of accuracy, the experts fared
. *, marginally better than a random forecast generator. Ironi-
:.i11r; the media darlings were among the poorest performers;
.:d of those, the worst were the prophets of doom and disinte-
::rtion. Examples of their far-fetched forecasts included the coi-
.=:se of Canada, Nigeria, China, India, Indonesia, South Africa,
3:lgium, and the EU. None of these countries has imploded.

