Ttrre ;\rt *f Thinki.ng 0learlSr

"There are two kinds of forecasters: those who don't knou'.
and those who don't know they don't know," wrote Harvard
economist John Kenneth Galbraith. With this he made him-
self a figure of hatred in his own guild. Fund manager Peter
Lynch summed it up even more cuttingly: "There are 60,000
economists in the U.S., many of them employed full-time tn'-
ing to forecast recessions and interest rates, and if they could
dr: it successfully twice in a row, they'd all be millionaires br-
now. . . As far as I know, most of them are stil1 gainfullv
employed, which ought to tell us something." That was ten
years ago. Today, the United States could employ three times
as many economists-with little or no effect on the quality of
their forecasts.
The problem is that experts enjoy free rein with few negative
consequences. Ifthey strike it lucky, they enjoy publicity, con-
sultancy offers, and publication dea1s. If they are completely off
the mark, they face no penalties-neither in terms of financial
compensation nor in loss of reputation. This win-win scenario
virtually incentivizes them to churn out as many prophecies as
they can muster. Indeed, the more forecasts they generate, the
more will be coincidentally correct. Ideally, they should have to
pay into some sort of "forecast fund'Lsay, $1,000 per predic-
tion. If the forecast is correct, the expert gets his money back
with interest. If he is wrong, the money goes to charity.
So what is predictable and what is not? Some things are
fairly simple. For example, I have a rough idea of how manr-
pounds I will weigh in a year's time. However, the more com-
plex a system, and the longer the time frame, the more blurred
the view of the future will be. Global warming, oil prices, or
exchange rates are almost impossible to foresee. Inventions are

t2a

--- rt at all predictable because if we kneu-
,,nru1d invent in the future, we would alrei
So, be critical when you encounter pre(
.::ar one, I make sure to smile, no matter h
i=-< myself two questions. First, what incer
:-l-e) If he is an employee, could he losi
^':1-s wrongi Or is he a selFappointed gur
::::ough books and lectures? The latter n-g
. --- the media's attention so, predictablr-.
:- be sensational. Second, how good is h:
:.nv predictions has he made over the pa
-:;se, how many have been right and horr-
:::trmation is vital, yet often goes unrep
::"Jia: Please dont publish any more fore,
::. pundit's track record.
Finally, since it is so fitting, a quote l
:r--:ne minister Tony Blair: "I dont make
u-,-e, and I never will."

