of Specific Cases
lJacr

rrn-hve. He studied social philosophy anc
n interest in developing countries since he
rrger. -{fter graduation, he worked for nr-o
d Cross in West Africa and then for three
a headquarters, where he rose to head of the
trnent. He then completed an MBA, writ-
orporate social responsibility. What is more
:riis tbr a major bank or (b) Chris works for .
he runs its Third World foundation. A or Bi
ill opt for B. Unfortunately, it's the wrons
l does not only say that Chris works for
also that an additional condition has beer:
r-ho u'ork specifically within a bank's Thiri
cornprise a tiny subset ofbankers. Therefore"
rnore likely. the conjunction fallacy is at plar'
tr seems larger than the entire set-which br
be the case. Amos TVersky and Nobel laure-
nan have studied this extensively. !
er- tor the conjunctionfallacy because we have

11r>!f i]*i:eltri

':- innate attraction to "harmonious" or "p1ausib1e" stories. The
:-rre convincingly, impressively, or vividly that Chris the aid
.r'-,rker is portrayed, the greater the risk of false reasoning. If
- :ad put it a different way, you would have recognized the
-'..rra details as overly specific, for example: "chris is thirty-
.'.'e. What is more likelyl (a) Chris works for a bank or (b)
Jeris works for a bank in New york, where his office is on the
:,i-enty-fourth floor, overlooking Central park.,,
Here's another example: What is more likely? (a) ,,Seattle
.::port is closed. Flights are canceled,,, or (b) *Seattle airport is
:-,rsed due to bad weather. Flights are canceled.', A or B? This
::ne, you have it: A is more 1ikely since B implies that an addi_
::,rnal condition has been met, namely, bad weather. It could be
::rat a bomb threat, accident, or strike closed the airport; how_
.'er, when faced with a "plausible,, story, we dont stop to con_
.:der such things. Now that you are aware of this, try it out
'"i'ith friends. You will see that most pick B.
Even experts are not immune to the conjunction ifallacy. In
"^982, at an international conference for future research,
:rperts-a1l of them academics-were divided into two
:roups. To group A, Daniel Kahneman presented the follow_
:rg forecast for 1983: "Oil consumption will decrease by 30
rercent." Group B heard: 'A dramatic rise in oil prices will lead
:o a 30 percent reduction in oil consumption.,, Both groups had
:o indicate how likely they considered the scenarios. The result
"r-as clear: Group B felt much more strongly about its forecast
:han group A did.
Kahneman believes that two types of thinking exist: The
irst kind is intuitive, automatic, and direct. fhe second is con-
scious, rational, slow, laborious, and 1ogica1. Unfortunately,

r23

