43

The Deception of Speciflc Cases
Conjunction Fallacy

hris is thirty-five. He studied social philosophy ani
has had an interest in developing countries since h:
was a teenager. After graduation, he worked for nt-r.

years with the Red Cross in West Africa and then for three
years in its Geneva headquarters, where he rose to head of the
African aid department. He then completed an MBA, wrir-
ing his thesis on corporate social responsibility. What is more
like1y? (a) Chris works for a major bank or (b) Chris works for;
major bank, where he runs its Third World foundation. A or Bi
Most people will opt for B. Unfortunately, it's the wroni
answer. Option B does not only say that Chris works ti.:
a major bank but also that an additional condition has bee-
met. Employees who work specifically within a bank's Thi:;
World foundation comprise a tiny subset of bankers. Therefore-
option A is much more likely. Trte conjunctionfatlacy is at pln"
when such a subset seems larger than the entire set-which br
definition cannot be the case. Amos TVerskv and Nobel laure-
ate Daniel Kahneman have stuiied this extensively.
We are easy prey for the conjunctionfallacybeca,tse we ha,,-r

nn lnnate attraction to ,,harmonious,,or
=ore convincingly, impressively, or vir
-,';orker is portrayed, the greater the ris
- had put it a different way, you woul
:-rtra details as overly specific, for exa
:r'e. What is more likelyt (a) Chris n
Chris works for a bank in New york, u.
:-"r-enty-fourth floor, overlooking Centrz
Here's another example: What is m
.::port is closed. Flights are canceled,,' c
:-.rsed due to bad weather. F.lights are c
::ne, you have it: A is more likely since l
:::nal condition has been met, namely,, b
:::at a bomb threat, accident, or strike cl
=-.'er, when faced with a ,,p1ausible,, ston:
..jer such things. Now that you ,r. ,.,
,',-::h friends. You will see that most pick
Even experts are not immune to the
:rS2, at aL international conference
:-,,_:erts-al1 of them academics_,ur.er
r-:rups. To group A, Daniel Kahneman
.::l forecast for 1983: ,,Oil consumptior
:.:.ent." Group B heard: ,A dramatic risi
: ": 30 percent reduction in oil consumpt:
-" :ndicate how likely they considered the
,*'.. clear: Group B felt much more stror
:i::n group A did.
Kahnenian believes that two types or
.-:=: kind is intuitive, automatic, and direc
"::rus, rational, slow, laborious, and 1o:

