?he Art *f Thinking Clearlv

the same options werc reframed. "Option A kltts four hundred
people. Option B offers a 33 percent chance that no one will
die, and with a 66 percent chance that all six hundred will die.-
This time, only a fraction of respondents chose A and the ma-
jority picked B. The researchers observed a complete U-turn
from almost all involved. Depending on the phrasing-survive
or die-the respondents made completely different decisions.
Another example: Researchers presented a group of people
with two kinds of meat,"99 percent fatfree" and"Lpercent fat,"
and asked them to choose which was healthier. Can you guess
which they picked? Bingo: Respondents ranked the first type
of meat as healthier, even though both were identical. Next
came the choice between "98 percent fat free" and "1 percent
fat." Again, most respondents chose the first option-despite
its higher fat content.
"Glossing" is a popular type o{ framing. Under its rules, a
tumbling share price becomes a "correction." An overpaid ac-
quisition price is branded "goodwill." In every managemenr
course, a probiem magically transforms into an "opportunitr--
or a "challenge." A person who is fired is "reassessing his ca-
reer." A fallen soldier-regardless of how much bad luck or
stupidity led to his death-turns into a "war hero." Genocide
translates to "ethnic cleansing." A successful emergency land-
ing, for example on the Hudson River, is celebrated as a "tri-
umph of aviation." (Shouldn't a textbook landing on a runwa\-
count as an even bigger triumph of aviation?)
Have you ever looked more closely at the prospectus for
financial products-for example, ETFs (exchange-traded
funds)? Generally the brochure illLstrates the product's perfor-
mance in recent years, going back just far enough for the nicest

126

:ossible upward curve to emerge. This is a
:-rample is a simple piece of bread. Dep
.named, as either the "symbolic', or the ,,tn
:an split a religion, as happened in the sir
::re Reformation.

Framing is used to good effect in comr
:sed cars. You are led to focus on just a ferr
::lessage is delivered through a salesman, a
:iatures, or even your own criteria. For ex
--::e low mileage and good tires, you home
-,-ok the state of the engine, the brakes, c
--::e mileage and tires become the main sell
:-r decision to buy. Such oversight is or
;;:rce it is difficult to take in all possible p
r':ingly, had other frames been used to tor
-r-e decided very differently.
-{uthors are conscious framers, too. A
:e rather dull if, from page one, the murd
::rpened-stab by stab, as it were. Even tl
''icover the motives and murder weapons.
:.:_; injects thrills and suspense into the sror
In conclusion: Realize that whate.r.er
:r:::rains some element of framing, and th
:1ou hear it from a trusted friend or rei
:r"rspaper-is subject to this effect, too. Er

