-- - ^^..i,-
.--< L -Ydl1J


$ere r.-h'amed. "Option A kills four hundred
ofers a 33 percent chance that no one will
p€rcent chance that all six hundred will die.'
hection of respondents chose A and the ma-
he researchers observed a complete fJ-turn
,oh-ed. Depending on the phrasing-survir-e
r,lents made completely different decisions.
rle: Researchers presented a group ofpeople
meat. "99 percent fattree" and"L percent fat,-
r choose which was healthier. Can you guess
li Bingo: Respondents ranked the first type
ier, even though both were identicai. Next
Enl-een "98 percent fat free" and "1 Percent
respondents chose the first option-despite

3nt.
r popular type of framing. Under its rules, a
ice becomes a "correction." An overpaid ac-
trranded "goodwill." In every management
rraqically transforms into an "opportunitr-'
A person who is fired is "reassessing his ca-
,ldier-regardless of how much bad luck or
L iieath-turns into a "war hero." Genocide
ric cleansing." A successful emergency land-
on the Hudson River, is celebrated as a "tri-
.- tshouldn't a textbook landing on a runwa\-
nQger triumph of aviation?)
r looked more closely at the prospectus for
ts-tor example, ETFs (exchange-traded
: the brochure iliustrates the product's perfor-
ears, going back just far enough for the nicest

I?.*1f X)*b*l1i

:.rssible upward curve to emerge. This is alsoframing. Another
=:tample is a simple piece of bread. Depending on how it is
;.imed, as either the "symbolic" or the "true" body of Christ, it
::n split a religion, as happened in the sixteenth century with
:::e Reformation.

Framing is used to good effect in commerce, too. Consider
-sed cars. You are 1ed to focus on just a few factors, whether the
::-essage is delivered through a salesman, a sign touting certain
:iatures, or even your own criteria. For example, if the car has
:::e low mileage and good tires, you home in on this and over-
-...ok the state of the engine, the brakes, or the interior. Thus,
:::e mileage and tires become the main selling points and frame
-:r decision to buy. Such oversight is only natural, though,
':rce it is difficult to take in all possible pros and cons. Inter-
=.tingly, had other frames been used to tout the car, we might
.--rr-e decided very differently.
Authors are conscious framers, too. A crime novel would
--t rather dull if from page one, the murder were shown as it
::appened-stab by stab, as it were. Even though we eventually
jiscover the motives and murder weapons, the novelist'sifram-
::g injects thrills and suspense into the story.
In conclusion: Realize that whatever you communicate
:rntains some element of framing, and that every fact-even
:: r'ou hear it from a trusted friend or read it in a reputable
:ervspaper-is subject to this effect, too. Even this chapter.

127

