andWaiting Is Torture

ruation in soccer, the ball takes less than 0'3
r the player who kicks the ball to the goal'
:nough time for the goalkeeper to watch the
{e must make a decision before the ball is
n-ers rvho take penalty kicks shoot one third
: middle of the goal, one third of the time at
third of the time at the right. Surely goal-
ted this, but what do they do? They dive ei
rr to the right. Rarely do they stay standing
r-en though roughly a third of all balls land
nh u'ould they jeopardize saving these penal-
lns\ver: appearance. It looks more impressive
barrassing to dive to the wrong side than to
r and rvatch the ball sail past. This is the action
. even if it achieves nothing.
mes from the Israeli researcher Michael Bar-
d hundreds ofpenalty shoot-outs. But notjust
rictim to the action bias. Suppose a group of
rtrtclub and begin to argue, shouting at each

I?,olf S*i:*1!i

other and gesturing wildly. The situation is close to escalat-
ing into an all-out brawl. The police officers in the area-some
t'-ouogr some more senior-hold back, monitor the scene from a
distance, and intervene only when the first casualties appear. If
ro experienced officers are involved, this situation often ends
Jifferently: Young, overzealous officers succumb to the action
:ias and dive in immediately. A study revealed that later in-
:ervention, thanks to the calming presence of senior officers,
:esults in fewer casualties.
the action bias is accentuated when a situation is new or
:nclear. When starting out, many investors act like the young,
.ung ho police offi.cers outside the nightclub: They cant yet
j:rdge the stock market so they compensate with a sort of hyper-
.ctivity. Of course this is a waste of time. As Charlie Munger
.irms up his approach to investing: "We've got . . . discipline in
:r-oiding just doing any damn thing just because you cant stand
:ractivity."
the action bias exists even in the most educated circles. If
. patientt illness cannot yet be diagnosed with certainty, and
joctors must choose between intervening (i.e., prescribing
. rmething) or waiting and seeing, they are prone to take ac-
::on. Such decisions have nothing to do with profiteering, but
:-:.ther with the human tendency to want to do anything but sit
.nd wait in the face of uncertainty.
So what accounts for this tendency? In our old hunter-
:rtherer environment (which suited us quite well), action
::umped reflection. Lightning-fast reactions were essential to
. rrvival; deliberation could be fata1. When our ancestors saw
. silhouette appear at the edge of the forest-something that
.roked a lot like a saber-toothed tiger-they did not take a pew

129

