The Art ttf Thinking Ol*ariv

to muse over what it might be. They hit the road-and fast. We
are the descendants of these quick responders. Back then, it
was better to run away once too often. However, our world to-
day is different; it rewards reflection, even though our instincts
may suggest otherwise.
Although we now value contemplation more highly, out-
right inaction remains a cardinal sin. You get no honor, no
medal, no statue with your name on it if you make exactly the
right decision by uaiting-for the good of the company, the
state, even humanity. On the other hand, if you demonstrate
decisiveness and quick judgment, and the situation improves
(though perhaps coincidentally), it's quite possible your boss.
or even the mayor, will shake your hand. Society at large still
prefers rash action to a sensible wait-and-see strategy.
In conclusion: In new or shaky circumstances, we feel com-
pelled to do something, anything. Afterward we feel better.
even if we have made things worse by acting too quickly or too
often. So, though it might not merit a parade in your honor, it-
a situation is unclear, hold back until you can assess your op-
tions. '411 of humanity's problems stem from man's inability to
sit quietly in a room alone," wrote Blaise Pascal. At home, in
his study.

WhyYou Are Either the Solution_

Omission Bias

ou are on a glacier with two clim
and falls into a crevasse. He migh

44

- for help, but you don,t, and he pt
:-:mber you actively push into the ravine, r

_-^irruEr you acrlvely push lnto the ravine, I
;::erward. Which weighs more heavily on.i
Considering the options rationally, itt oi

tually reprehensible, resulting as they do
: -npanions. And yet something makes us r,
:--: passive option, as less horrible. This te
;zission bias.lt crops up where both action a
::-ei consequences. In such cases, we tend
r' :esults seem mofe anodyne.
Suppose you are the head ofthe Federal ,
:,.:. You must decide whether or not to appl
r:rinally ill. The pills can have fatal side er
;E:.ent ofpatients on the spot, but save the
il" :ercent within a short period of time. \\-l
Jlost would withhold approval. To them.
r.f that takes out every fifth person is a u.or

130

