At>
1+r)

Why Watching and Waiting Is Torture

Action Bias

n a penalty situation in soccer, the ball takes less than 0.3
seconds from the player who kicks the ball to the goa1.
There is not enough time for the goalkeeper to watch the

ballt trajectory. He must make a decision before the ball is
kicked. Soccer players who take penalty kicks shoot one third
of the time at the middle of the goal, one third of the time at
the left, and one third of the time at the right. Surely goal-
keepers have spotted this, but what do they do? They dive ei-
ther to the left or to the right. Rarely do they stay standing
in the middle-even though roughly a third of all balls land
there. Why on earth would theyjeopardize saving these penal-
ties? The simple answer: appearance. It looks more impressive
and feels less embarrassing to dive to the wrong side than to
freeze on the spot and watch the ball sail past. This is the action
bias: Look active, even if it achieves nothing.

This study comes from the Israeli researcher Michael Bar-
Eli, who evaluated hundreds of penalty shoot-outs. But not just
goalkeepers fal1 victim to the actton bias. Suppose a group of
youths exit a nightclub and begin to argue, shouting at each

,rther and gesturing wildly. fhe situatior
:ng into an all-out brawl. The police office
-"-ourrgr some more senior-hold back, mon
iistance, and intervene only when the first
ro experienced officers are involved, this
:ift-erently: Young, overzealous officers su
i:os and dive in immediately. A study re.
::rvention, thanks to the calming presen(
::sults in fewer casualties.
the action bias is accentuated when a
::rclear. When starting out, many investor
rrng ho police officers outside the nighti
.;dge the stock market so they compensate ,
.:tivity. Of course this is a waste of time. .
:*ms up his approach to investing: ,,We,ve,
.i-,'oiding just doing any damn thing just bec
.::r.ctivity."
7he action bias exists even in the most
i 3atient's illness cannot yet be diagnosed
: --,ctors must choose between intervenin
.:nething) or waiting and seeing, thev ar,
::-,n. Such decisions have nothing to do u-i
:":her with the human tendency to want ro
l:j rvait in the face of uncertainty.
So what accounts for this tendenc.r-: I
.-.:herer environment (which suited us i
::-:mped reflection. Lightning-fast reaction
l-:r-ival; deliberation could be fatal. When
r .:ihouette appear at the edge of the fores
,:,- ked a lot like a saber-toothed tiger-ther

