
r it niqht be. They hit the road-and fast. \\'e
n= of these quick responders. Back then, i:
a1\-i\- once too often. However, our wodd to-
: re'.r-ards reflection, even though our instinct:
nrire.
ro"-r- r-alue contemplation more highly, out-
rrai:ls a cardinal sin. You get no honor, no
rtith r-our name on it if you make exactly the
' ;-;i;:,tg-for the good of the company, the
-r:.i.n. On the other hand, if you demonstrate
quick judgment, and the situation improves
coincidentally), it's quite possible your boss.
>r. s'i1l shake your hand. Society at large still
,n to 2 sensible wait-and-see strategy.
: In neu'or shaky circumstances, we feel com-
nething, anything. Afterward we feel better.
nade things worse by acting too quickly or too
r it rnight not merit a parade in your honor, il-
:lear. hold back until you can assess your oP-
nanin"s problems stem from man's inability to
oom alone," wrote Blaise Pascal. At home, in

4&

WhyYou Are Either the Solution-or the problem
Omission Bias

ou are on a glacier with two climbers. The first slips
and fa1ls into a crevasse. He might survive if you call
for help, but you don't, and he perishes. The second

-,:mber you actively push into the ravine, and he dies shortly
i:terward. Which weighs more heavily on your conscience?
Considering the options rationally, it's obvious that both are
=:ra1ly reprehensible, resulting as they do in death for your
: - npanions. And yet something makes us rate the first option,
-:e passive option, as less horrible. This feeling is called the
:'; j:sion bias.Tt crops up where both action and inaction lead to
::-:e1 consequences. In such cases, we tend to prefer inaction;
:; results seem more anodyne.
Suppose you are the head of the Federal Drug Administra-
- - r. You must decide whether or not to approve a drug for the
-=:ninally i11. The pills can have fatal side effects: They kill20
:':rcent of patients on the spot, but save the lives of the other
-; , cercent within a short period of time. What do you decide?
\Iost would withhold approval. To them, waving through a
::jg that takes out every fifth person is a worse act than failing

