Ttrre Art cf Thinhir:g fi3*arly

to administer the cure to the other 80 percent of patients. It is
an absurd decision, and a perfect example of the omission bias.
Suppose that you ate aware of the bias and decide to approve
the drug in the name of reason and decency. Bravo. But what
happens when the first patient dies? A media storm ensues, and
soon you find yourself out of a job. As a civil servant or politi-
cian, you would do well to take the ubiquitots ornission bias
seriously-and even foster it.
Case law shows how engrained such "moral distortion" is
in our society. Active euthanasia, even if it is the explicit wish
of the dying, is punishable by law, whereas deliberate refusal of
lifesaving measures is legal (for example, following so-called
DNR orders-do not resuscitate).
Such thinking also explains why parents feel it is perfecdr-
acceptable not to vaccinate their children, even though it dis-
cernibly reduces the risk of catching the disease. Of course.
there is also a very small risk of getting sick from the vaccine.
Overall, however, vaccination makes sense. Vaccination pro-
tects not only the children, but society, too. A person who i'
immune to the disease will never infect others. Objectively, ir-
non-vaccinated children ever contracted one ofthese sicknesses.
we could accuse the parents of actively harming them. But thi:
is exactly the point: Deliberate inaction somehow seems les:
grave than a comparable action-say, if the parents intention-
ally infected them.
the omission bias lies behind the following delusions: \\e
wait until people shoot themselves in the foot rather than tali-
ing aim ourselves. Investors and business journalists are more
lenient on companies that d.lrjop no new products than thet
are on those that produce bad ones, even though both roa&

132

lead to ruin. Sitting passively on a bun
ieels better than actively buying bad or
sion filter into a coal plant feels superic
;ost reasons. Failing to insulate your ho
ihan burning the spared fuel ,o,,ow
qlecting to declare income tax is less im
documents, even though the state loses c
In the previous chapter, we met the a
:osite of the omission bias? Notquite. Th
:o offset a lack of clarity with futile hr1
:rto play when a situation is fuzzy, mu
7he omission bias, onthe other hand, usua
':ruation is intelligible: A future misfortr
;r-ith direct action, but this insight doesnj
i-. it should.

the omission bias isvery difficult to der
:: more noticeable than inaction. In the
:rents coined a punchy slogan to condemn
:: the solution, you're part of the problem

