.-:i Cl.eerl:,'


: r..::e to the other 80 percent of patients. It is
'::. :.nJ a perfect example of the omission bia:.
r a:. r.\\-are of the bias and decide to approve
u:::e oi reason and decency. Bravo. But what
e i:si patient dies? A media storm ensues, anC
::'o-: out of a job. As a civil servant or politi-
io .,r-e11 to take the ubiquitous omission bid:
;e:: :-oster it.
n-r ro\\- engrained such "moral distortion" is
;tir-e euthanasia, even if it is the explicit wish
u:rishable by law, whereas deliberate refusal of
res is 1egal (for exampie, following so-called
r not resuscitate).
E also explains why parents feel it is perfectlr
r-accinate their children, even though it dis-
the risk of catching the disease. Of course.
n'small risk of getting sick from the vaccine.
r, r'accination makes sense. Vaccination pro-
e children, but society, too. A person who is
Lisease will never infect others. Objectively, if
hildren ever contracted one ofthese sicknesses.
:he parents of actively harming them. But this
'iat: Deliberate inaction somehow seems less
rparable action-say, if the parents intention-
n.
r:a-' lies behind the following delusions: \AIe
shoot themselves in the foot rather than tak-
s. Investors and business journalists are more
rnies that develop no new products than ther-
.t produce bad ones, even though both roads

H,olf Dobelli

lead to ruin. Sitting passively on a bunch of miserable shares
teels better than actively buying bad ones. Building no emis_
sion filter into a coal plant feels superior to removing one for
cost reasons. Failing to insulate your house is more acceptable
than burning the spared fuel for your own amusement. Ne_
-qlecting to declare income tax is less immoral than faking tax
.jocuments, even though the state loses out either way.
In the previous chapter, we met the action bias.Isit the op_
-:osite of the ontission /ias? Not quite. The action bias causes us
:o offset a lack of clarity with futile hyperactivity and comes
:nto play when a situation is fuzzy, muddy, or contradictory.
Arc omission bias, onthe other hand, usually abounds where the
situation is intelligible: A future misfortune might be averted
''r-ith direct action, but this insight doesn't motivate us as much
is it should.

-Ihe omission bias is very difficult to detect- after all, action
:s more noticeable than inaction. In the 1960s student move-
::ients coined a punchy slogan to condemn it: ,,If you,re not part
.: the solution, youte part of the problem.',

133

