
*-t
tv

Don't Blame Me
Self-Serving Bias

o you ever read annual reports, paying particular at-
tention to the CEO's comments? No? That's a Pir.r-.
because there you'll find countless examples of thi..

next error, which we all fall for at one time or another. For
example, if the company has enjoyed an excellent year, the
CEO catalogs his indispensable contributions: his brillianl
decisions, tireless efforts, and cultivation of a dynamic cor-
porate culture. However, if the company has had a miserabic
year, we read about all sorts of other dynamics: the unfortu-
nate exchange r^te, governmental interference, the malicious
trade practices of the Chinese, various hidden tariffs, subdued
consumer confidence, and so on. In short: We attribute suc-
cess to ourselves and failures to external factors. This is the

selfserving bias.
Even if you have never heard the expression, you definiteh
know the selfserving bias from high school. If you got an .{-
you were solely responsible; the.top grade reflected your intel-
ligence, hard work, and skill. And if you flunked? The test u'as
clearly unfair.

But grades dont matter to you anymo
narket has taken their place. There, if yc
.ipplaud yourself. If your portfolio perf
:lame lies exclusively with ,,the market',
5r'this)-or maybe that useless investmen
:eriods where I'm a power user of the se,
:ew novel rockets up the best-seller list,
;roulder. Surely this is my best book yetl I
:re flood of new releases, it is because the
:;cognize good literature when they see it.
-: is clearly a case ofjealousy.
To investigate this bias, researchers put
-:'.- test and afterward allocated the partic
.:ores at random. Those who got scored h
:::orough and fair; low scorers rated it cor
',0:l' do we attribute success to our own s},
-:r to other factorsl fhere arc many theori
::.nation is probably this: It feels good. p
ij-l major harm. If it did, evolution woulc
-""-cr the past hundred thousand years. But b
*.:ld with many hidden risks, the selfsert
,r.J to catastrophe. Richard Fuld, the selir
-:-:r-gyss," might well endorse this. He was
:.'-:he investment bank Lehman Brothers.
--:: in 2008. It would not surprise me if he
':-isrer of the universe," blaming governm(
tr;.:tt<'s collapse.
trn SAT tests, students can score berrl
:,. irts. When asked their results ayear later,
:-ri: scores by around 50 points. Interesting

