Me
9ias

er-er read annual reports, paying particular at-
n to the CEO's comments? No? That's a pin'.
,e there you'll find countless examples of this
ch rr-e all fall for at one time or another. For
' company has enjoyed an excellent year, the
his indispensable contributions: his brilliant
:ss efrorts, and cultivation of a dynamic cor-
Hou,ever, if the company has had a miserable
bout ali sorts of other dynamics: the unfortu-
rate. governmental interference, the malicious
of the Chinese, various hidden tariffs, subdued
idence, and so on. In short: We attribute suc-
es and failures to external factors. This is the

har-e never heard the expression, you definiteh-
r-,'inT bias from high school. If you got an A.
responsible; the top grade reflected your intel-
ork. and skill. And if you flunked? The test wa-'

&,*1f D*i:el1i

But grades don't matter to you anymore: Perhaps the stock
market has taken their place. There, if you make a profit, you
applaud yourself. If your portfolio performs miserably, the
blame lies exclusively with "the market" (whatever you imply
by this)-or maybe that useless investment adviser. I, too, have
periods where I'm a power user of the selfserving bias: lf my
new novel rockets up the best-seller list, I clap myself on the
shoulder. Surely this is my best book yet! But if it disappears in
the flood of new releases, it is because the readers simply don't
recognize good literature when they see it. And if critics slay it,
rt is clearly a case ofjealousy.
To investigate this bias, researchers put together a personal-
:rv test and afterward allocated the participants' good or bad
scores at random. Those who got scored highly found the test
:horough and fair; low scorers rated it completely useless. So
',rhy do we attribute success to our own skill and ascribe fail-
'rre to other factors? There arc many theories. The simplest ex-
:lanation is probably this: It feels good. Plus, it doesnt cause
.nv major harm. If it did, evolution would have eliminated it
rr-er the past hundred thousand years. But beware: In a modern
".,.orld with many hidden risks, the selfserving bias can quickly
-:ad to catastrophe. Richard Fuld, the self:titled "master of the
-niverse," might well endorse this. He was the almighty CEO
.: the investment bank Lehman Brothers, until it went bank-
:-:pt in 2008. It would not surprise me if he still called himself
'araster of the universe," blaming government inaction for the
::.nk's collapse.
In SAT tests, students can score between 200 and 800
:"rints. When asked their results ^year later, they tend to boost
::-eir scores by around 50 points. Interestingly, they are neither

135

