f he Art of Thinking Clearly

lying nor exaggerating; they are simply "enhancing" the result
a little-until they start to believe the new score themselves.
In the building where I live, five students share afi ^p^rt-
ment. I meet them now and again in the elevator, and I decidei
to ask them separately how often they take out the trash. One
said he did it every second time. Another: every third time-
Roommate number 3, cursing because his garbage bag hac
split, reckoned he did it pretty much every time, say 90 percent-
Although their answers should have added up to 100 percent.
these boys achieved an impressive 320 percent! The five sr--
tematically overestimated their roles-and so, are no differen:
from any of us. In married couples, the same thing happens:
It's been shown that both men and women overestimate thei:
contribution to the health of the marriage. Each assumes thei:
input is more than 50 percent.
So, how can we dodge the selfserving bias? Do you hare
friends who tell you the truth-no holds barred? If so, considr
yourself lucky. If not, do you have at least one enemyi Gooc
Invite him or her over for coffee and ask for an honest opin-
ion about your strengths and weaknesses. You will be forer-s
grateful you did.

136

46

Be Careful What You Wish For
Hedonic Treadmill

uppose one day the phone rings: A
you that you have just scooped the lr
million! Howwould you feel? And I

:eel like that? Another scenario: The phone
:hat your best friend has passed away. Agz
::e1, and for how long?
In chapter 40 ("False Prophets: Foreca,
:"nined the miserable accuracy of predictir
::re fields of politics, economics, and socir
:-uded that self-appointed experts are oi r
:indom forecast generator. So, moving on r
-.ell can we predict our feelings? Are we e:
'.\ ould winning the lottery make us the h;
::: vears to come? Harvard psychologist D
i{e has studied lottery winners and discor-e
-,e:s ellbct fizzles out after a few months. Sc
i': u receive the big check, you will be as cc
=:rt as you were before. He calls this "affecti
-,bility to correctly predict our own €morir

