-,: -,=ll1\
:
si.::; erecutive, whose enormous income was
; h,:1e in his pocket, decided to build himself
:rcri:., rhe city. His dream matetialized into a
n:. ; su'imming pool, and an enviable vies-
x;nirins. For the first few weeks, he beamed
io^:r the cheerfulness disappeared, and slr
res unhappier than ever. What happenedi
rhe happiness effect evaPorates after a ferr
rras no longer his dream. "I come home from
or and . . . nothing. I feel as indifferent about
about my one-room student apartment'" To
e. the poor guy now faced a one-hour com-
This may sound tolerable, but studies shorr
'y c.1r rePresents a major source of discontent
:ple hardiy ever get used to it. In other words'
mate a{finity for commuting will suffer even-
. -\nvhow, the moral of the story is that the
.a or-erali negative effect on my friend's hap-

hre no better: People who change or Progress
r. in terms of happiness, right backwhere ther-
Lnd three months. The same goes for people
,r Porsche. Science calls this effect the hedonit
rli hard, advance, and are able to afford more
and vet this doesnt make us any happier'
gatir-e events affect us-perhaps a spinal cord
; of a friend? Here, we also overestimate the
:nsin- of future emotions. For example, when
ls. it ftels like life wiil never be the 'u*"' th'
rpleteiv convinced that they will never again

B*tf i)*l:eili

:rperience joy, but after three or so months, they are back on
:re dating scene.
Wouldnt it be nice if we knew exactly how happy a new
:rr, career, or relationship would make us? Well, this is do-
rrle in part. Use these scientifically rubber-stamped pointers to
::ake better, brighter decisions: (a) Avoid negative things that
-.'lu cannot grow accustomed to, such as commuting, noise, or
:rronic stress. (b) Expect only short-term happiness from ma-
:.rial things, such as cars, houses, lottery winnings, bonuses,
"rd prizes. (c) Aim for as much free time and autonomy as
: rssible since long-lasting positive effects generally come from
'.','nat you actively do. Follow your passions even if you must
- - rfeit a portion of your income for them. Invest in friendships.
lrr most people, professional status achieves long-lasting hap-
:iness, as long as they don't change peer groups at the same
:-ne. In other words, if you ascend to a CEO role and frater-
: -ze only with other executives, the effect fizzles out.

139

