3-early

a:::r: thev are simply "enhancing" the resuli
'!- s:tr:i to believe the new score themselves'
nhere 1 live, five students share an apart-
: irr-alr- and again in the elevator, and I decidei
:a:e,r horv often they take out the trash' One
er- .econd time. Another: every third time'
x: -1. cursing because his garbage bag hai
: ii;. it pretty much every time, say 90 percent'
ni\-ers should have added up to 100 percent'
red an impressive 320 percentl The five s1's-
s:imated their roles-and so, are no differen:
In married couples, the same thing happens:
rhat both men and women overestimate their
he health of the marriage. Each assumes thei:

rn 50 percent.
'u*e dodge the selfserrting bias? Do you har-e
r ou the truth-no holds barred? If so, consider
f not. do you have at least one enemy? Good'
:r orer for coffee and ask for an honest opin-
rrengths and weaknesses. You will be forevei

46

Be Careful What You Wish For
Hedonic Treadmill

uppose one day the phone rings: An excited voice te1ls
you that you have just scooped the lottery jackpot-$10
million! How would you feel? And how long would you

t-eel like that? Another scenario: The phone rings, and you learn
:hat your best friend has passed away. Again, how would you
-el, and for how long?
In chapter 40 ("False Prophets: Forecast Illusion"), we ex-
:.mined the miserable accuracy of predictions, for example in
te fields of politics, economics, and social events. We con-
:,uded that selFappointed experts are of no more use than a
:andom forecast generator. So, moving on to a new area: How
".re11 can we predict our feelings? Are we experts on ourselves?
:,\buld winning the lottery make us the happiest people alive
::r years to come? Harvard psychologist Dan Gilbert says no.
He has studied lottery winners and discovered that the happi-
:ess effect frzzles out after a few months. So, a little while after
;-ou receive the big check, you will be as content or as discon-
::nt as you were before. He calls this "affective forecasting,,: our
-::ability to correctly predict our own emotions.

