Thc A11 r:l'Thinking Ciearl.v

A friend, a banking executive, whose enormous income was
beginning to burn a hole in his pocket, decided to build himself
a new home away from the city. His dream materralized into a
villa with ten rooms, a swimming pool, and an enviable vieu-
of the lake and mountains. For the first few weeks, he beamed
with delight. But soon the cheerfulness disappeared, and six
months later he was unhappier than ever. What happenedi
As we now know, the happiness effect evaporates after a ferr
months. The villa was no longer his dream. "I come home from
work, open the door and . . . nothing. I feel as indifferent about
the vil1a as I did about my one*room student apartment." To
make things worse, the poor guy now faced a one-hour com-
mute twice a day. This may sound tolerable, but studies shorr
that commuting by car represents a major source of discontent
and stress, and people hardly ever get used to it. In other words.
whoever has no innate affinity for commuting will suffer even-
day-twice a day. Anyhow, the moral of the story is that the
dream vilia had an overall negative effect on my friend's hap-
piness.
Many others fare no better: People who change or progress
in their careers are, in terms ofhappiness, right backwhere the\
started after around three months. The same goes for people
who buy the latest Porsche. Science calls this effect the hedoni;
treadnr.ill: We work hard, advance, and are able to afford more
and nicer things, and yet this doesnk make us any happier.
So how do negative events affect us-perhaps a spinal cori
injury or the loss of a friend? Here, we also overestimate the
duration and intensity of future emotions. For example, wher
a relationship ends, it feels like lihe will never be the same. The
affiicted are completely convinced that they will never agair-

138

experience joy, but after three or so mon
rhe dating scene.
Wouldnt it be nice if we knew exact
Jar, career, or relationship would make r
rble in parr. Use these scientifically rubber
nake better, brighter decisions: (a) Avoid
-''ou cannot grow accustomed to, such as c
--hronic stress. (b) Expect only short-term
:erial things, such as cars, houses, lotten
ind prizes. (c) Aim for as much free ti,
:ossible since long-lasting positive effects r
'.';hat you actively do. Follow your passior
:rrfeit a portion of your income for them. I
irr most people, professional status achiel
:iness, as long as they dont change peer
::ne. In other words, if you ascend to a C
:-:ze only with other executives, the effect t

