* atYour Existence
Bias

trom Philadelphia up to NewYork, I got stucit
lfrc iam. .Why is it always me?" I groaned-
g to the opposite side of the road, I saw care-
. driters racing past with enviable speed. Ao
hour crawling forward at a snail's pace, and
:esrless from braking and accelerating, I askei
I reallr'was especially unlucky. Do I alwar-s
ne: .lt the bank, post office, and grocery storei
rIJoi
. on this highway, a traffic jam develops 10 per-
. The probability that I will get stuck in a jan:
Lar is not greater than the probability that one
:er.'er. the likelihood that I will get stuck at a
rnr iourney is greater than 10 percent. The rea-
'a:r onlr- crawl forward when in a traffic jam, I
rrtionate amount of time in this state. In addi-
.c is zooming along, the prospect never crosses
r€ moment it arises and I am stuck, I noticb it.
rrlies to the lines at bank counters or traffic

jj *ll Lob*lli

-ights: Let's say the route between point A and point B has ten
:raffic lights. On average, one out of the ten will always be red,
-ind the others green. However, you may spend more than 10
rercent of your total travel time waiting at a red light. If this
joesn't seem right, imagine that you are traveling at near the
.peed of light. In this case, you would spend 99"99 percent (not
10 percent) of your total journey time waiting and cursing in
:iont of red traffic lights.
Whenever we complain about bad luck, we must be wary
-,f the so-called selfselection bias. My male friends often gripe
,.'oout there being too few women in their companies, and my
=male friends groan that theirs have too few men. This has
,.othing to do with bad luck: The grumblers form part of the
.rmple. The probability is high that a manwill work in a mostly
:rale industry. Ditto for women. On a grander scale: Ifyou live
-r a country with a large proportion of men or women (such
.. China or Russia, respectively)) you are likely to form part
.: the bigger group and accordingly feel hard done by. In elec-
::rns, it is most probable that you will choose the largest party.
-: r.oting, it is most likely that your vote corresponds with the
',,,':nning majority.
7he selfselection bias is pervasive. Marketers sometimes
,:umble into the trap in this way: To analyze how much cus-
:, ners value their newsletter, they send out a questionnaire.
,-rtortunately, this reaches only one group: current subscribers
''ho are clearly satisfied, have time to respond, and have not
:"irceled their subscriptions. The others make up no part of the
,"nple. Result: The poll is worthless.
Not too long ago, a rather maudlin friend remarked that it
:,.,:dered on the miraculous that he-yes, he!-ever existed.

74L

