A '4'
*g

Do Not Marvel atYour Existence
Self-Selection Bias

raveling from Philadelphia up to NewYork, I got stuck
in a traffic jam. "Why is it always me?" I groaned-
Glancing to the opposite side of the road, I saw care-

free southbound drivers racing past with enviable speed. As
I spent the next hour crawling forward at a snail's pace, and
started to grow restless from braking and accelerating, I askeC
myself whether I really was especially unlucky. Do I alwar-s
pick the worst lines at the bank, post office, and grocery storei
Or do 7ltst thinkl do?
Suppose that, on this highway, atraffic jam develops L0 per-
cent of the time. The probability that I will get stuck in a jarr
on a particular day is not greater than the probability that one
will occur. However, the likelihood that I wiil get stuck at a
certain point in my journey is greater than 10 percent. The rea-
son: Because I can only crawl forward when in a traffic jam, I
spend a disproportionate amount of time in this state. In addi-
tion, if the traffic is zooming along, the prospect never crosse:
my mind. But the moment it arisbs and I am stuck, I notice it.
The same applies to the lines at bank counters or traffic

Iights: Letb say the route between point A
traffic lights. On average, one out of the ter
and the others green. However, you may s
percent of your total travel time waiting a
Joesn't seem right, imagine that you are t
.peed of light. In this case, you would spen
10 percent) of your total journey time wai
:iont of red traffic lights.
Whenever we complain about bad lucl
rf the so-called selfselection bias. My male
:oout there being too few women in their
:emale friends groan that theirs have too
:othing to do with bad luck: The grumble
=:mple. The probabilityis high that a man \l
::ale industry. Ditto for women. On a gran,
-r a country with alarge proportion of m,
:.s China or Russia, respectively), you are
.: the bigger group and accordingly feel har
::,:ns, it is most probable that you will choo
-: r'oting, it is most likely that your vote cc
',r':nning majority.
7he selfselectian bias is pervasive. lI;
.::mble into the trap in this way: To anal.r
: -:ners value their newsletter, they send o
--rtbrtunately, this reaches only one group:
,''1o are clearly satisfied, have time to resf
:.nce1ed their subscriptions. The others ma.
i.npie. Result: The poll is worthless.
Not too long ago, a rather maudlin frier
:,:,:dered on the miraculous that he-r'es.

