The Art of Yl:ixking Cleariy

and coincidentally, both days were extremely hot. Since then.
he has always felt uncomfortable on very warm days. If the
temperature starts to heat up around one of his checkups, he
cancels right away.
Our brain is a connection machine. This is quite practical: It
we eat an unknown fruit and feel sick afterward, we avoid it ilr
future, labeling the plant poisonous or at least unpalatable. Thi-.
is how knowledge comes to be. However, this method also cre-
ates false knowledge. Russian scientist Ivan Pavlovwas the first
to conduct research into this phenomenon. His original goal
was to measure salivation in dogs. He used a bell to call the
dogs to eat, but soon the ringing sound was enough to make
the dogs salivate. The animals'brains linked two functionalir'
unrelated things-the ringing of a bell and the production of
saliva.
Pavlov's method works equally well with humans. Adver-
tising creates a link between products and emotions. For this
reason, you will never see Coke alongside a frowning face or a
wrinklybody. Coke people are young, beautiful, and oh so fun.
and they ^ppear in clusters not seen in the real world.
These false connections are the work of the association bias.
which also infuences the quality of our decisions. For example:
We often condemn bearers of bad news, since we automaticallr
associate them with the messaget content (otherwise knou-n
as "shoot-the-messenger syndrome"). Sometimes, CEOs and
investors (unconsciously) steer clear of these harbingers, mean-
ing the only news that reaches the upper echelons is positive.
thus creating a distorted view of the real situation. If you leai
a group of people, and don't *rrri ,o fall prey to false connec-
tions, direct your staffto tell you only the bad news-and fast.

t44

\Vith this, you overcompensate for the shc
sr-ndrome and, believe me, you will still hea

:lews.
In the days before e-mail and telemar
=alesmen went door-to-door peddling their
i particular salesman, George Foster, stooc
The house transpired to be vacant, and unbr
: tiny leak had been filling it with gas for s-t
:.i.so damaged, so when he pressed it, it creatt
:ouse exploded. Poor George ended up in th,
:-rnately he was soon back on his feet. Unfort
::nging doorbells had become so strong that
: rt his job for many years. He knew how ur
:::e incident was, but for all he tried, he just c
:.\-erse the (false) emotional connection.
The take-home message from all this is p
:r'Mark Twain: "We should be careful to ge
=:ce only the wisdom that is in it-and stol
-ie the cat that sits down on a hot stove-lid
: ru,n on a hot stove-lid again-and that is
,-111. never sit down on a cold one anymore.

