4S

Be WaryWhen Things Get Off to a Great Start
Beginner's Luck

n the last chapter, we learned about the association bias-
the tendency to see connections where none exist. For ex-
ample, regardless of how many big presentations he has

nailed while wearing them, Kevin's green polka-dot under-
pants are no guarantee ofsuccess.

We now come to a particularly tricky branch of the associa-
tion bias: creating a (false) link with the past. Casino player'
know this well; they call it beginner's luck.People who are neu-
to a game and lose in the first few rounds are usually cler.er
enough to fold. But whoever strikes lucky tends to keep go-
ing. Convinced of their above-average skills, these amateur:
increase the stakes-but they soon will get a sobering wake-up
call when the probabilities "normalize."
Beginneri luck plays an important role in the economy: Sar-
company A buys smaller companies B, C, and D one after the
other. The acquisitions prove a success, and the directors be-
lieve they have real skill for acquisitions. Buoyed by this con-
fidence, they now buy a much 1a'rger company, E. The integra-
tion is a disaster. The merger proves too dilficult to handle, tht

estimated synergies impossible to realiz
ing, this was foreseeable because in the
everything fell perfectly into place as if
hand, so beginner's luck blind,ed,them.
The same goes for the stock exchan
success, many investors pumped their life
stocks in the late ,90s. Some even took c
on the opportunity. However, these inve
:iny detail: 'Iheir amazing profits at the
Co with their stock-picking abilities. Thr
rn an upward spiral. Even the most cluelr
\\/hen the market finally turned downs
:acing mountains of dot-com debt.
We witnessed the same delusions dur
:rousing boom. Dentists, lawyers, teache
rave up their jobs to ,,flip,, houses_to buv t
:ight away at higher prices. The first fat I
:areer changes, but of course these gains
',','ith any specific skills. The housing bubb
:rost inept amateur brokers to flourish. NIa
:eeply indebted as they flipped even mo
:ansions. When the bubble finallyburst. r
" nlv a string of unsellable properties to the:
_ In fact, history has no shortage of beg:
".'hether Napoleon or Hitler would have d;
:"rign against the Russians without the p:
::-raller battles to bolster them.
But how do you tell the difference ben
.i:d the first signs of real talentl There is no i
:,,,-o tips may help: F irst, ifyou are much beri

