?he Art *f Yl:inking Clearly

a long period of time, you can be fairly sure that talent plays a
part. (Unfortunately, you can never be 100 percent, though.)
Second, the more people competing, the greater the chances
are that one of them will repeatedly strike lucky. Perhaps even
you. I{, among ten competitors, you establish yourself as a ma?
ket leader over many years, you can clap yourselfon the back.
That's a sure indication of talent. But if you are top dog among
ten million players (i.e., in the financial markets), you shouldn't
start visualizing a Buffettesque financial empire just yet; it's
extremely likely that you have simply been very fortunate.
Watch and wait before you draw any conclusions. Begin-
ner\ luck can be devastating, so guard against misconceptions
by treating your theories as a scientist would: Try to disprove
them. As soon as my first novel, Thirty-foe, was ready to go, I
sent it to a single publisher, where it was promptly accepted. For
a moment I felt like a genius, aliterary sensation. (The chance
that this publisher will take on a manuscript is one in fifteen
thousand.) To test my theory, I then sent the manuscript to ten
other big publishers. And I got ten rejection letters. My notion
was thus disproved, bringing me swiftly back down to earth.

1.r, t
r-tLt

Sweet Little Lies
Cognitive Dissonance

fox crept up to a vine. He gazec
purple, overripe grapes. He pi
against the trunk of the vine.

and tried to get at the fruit, but it was tc
:ried his luck again. He launched him,
:aw snapped only at fresh air. A third ti
ris might-so powerfully that he lander
fround with a thud. Still not a single leat
:urned up his nose: "These aren't even r
tr rvant sour grapes?" Holding his head l
:nto the forest.
The Greek poet Aesop created this fab
:he most common errors in reasoning. Al
l-hen the fox set out to do something and
::. He can resolve this conflict in one of th_r
:-orv getting at the grapes, (b) by admirrir
::rsufficient, or (c) by reinterpreting u,hat
::r-ely. The last option is an example of ;;i
::.ther, its resolution.

