)n Things Get Off to a Great Start
ck

hapter, we learned about the association bias-
v to see connections where none exist. For ex-
rrdless of how many big presentations he has
:aring them, Kevin's green polka-dot under-
trantee ofsuccess.
re to a particularly tricky branch of the associa-
re a (false) link with the past. Casino players
ther- call it beginner's luck.People who are ne'tr
lose in the first few rounds are usually clever
Bur u'hoever strikes lucky tends to keep go-
of their above-average skills, these amateurs
ies-but they soon will get a sobering wake-up
rob' ab ilit ie s " flor malize."
;t plar-s an important role in the economy: Sar
-: =n-raller companies B, C, and D one after the
risitions prove a success' and the directors be-
real ski1l for acquisitions. Buoyed by this con-
r,rr':uv a much larger comPany, E. The intigra-
r. The merger proves too difficult to handle, the

Rolf ilob*lli

estimated synergies impossible to realize. Objectively speak-
1ng, this was foreseeable because in the previous acquisitions
:r'erything fe1l perfectly into place as if guided by a magical
rand, so beginner's luckbhndedthem.
The same goes fbr the stock exchange. Driven by initial
:uccess, many investors pumped their life savings into Internet
.tocks in the late '90s. some even took out loans to capitalize
rn the opportunity. However, these investors overlooked one
:iny detail: Their amazing profits at the time had norhing to
:o with their stock-picking abilities. The market was simply
,,n an upward spiral. Even the most clueless investors won big.
iYhen the market fina1ly turned downward, many were left
::cing mountains of dot-com debt.
We witnessed the same delusions during the recent U.S.
:",rusing boom. Dentists, lawyers, teachers, and taxi drivers
.rve up their jobs to "flip" houses-to buy them and resell them
::qht away at higher prices. The first fat profits justified their
::.reer changes, but of course these gains had nothing to do
i'ith any specific skills. The housing bubble allowed even the
::-ost inept amateur brokers to flourish. Many investors became
:.eply indebted as they flipped even more and even bigger
:.ansions. When the bubble finally burst, many were left with
elr. a string of unsellable properties to their names.
In fact, history has no shortage of beginner's luck: I doubt
,;:rether Napoleon or Hitler would have dared launch a czm-
::ign against the Russians without the previous victories in
.::aller battles to bolster them.
But how do you tell the difference between beginner\ luck
i:J the first signs ofreal talenti There is no clear ru1e, but these
-.,,"o tips may help: F irst, if you are much better than others over

147

