r' r) .! r'1. ,:rl T'iri.r1,.tit.g *riel:.t'i,;v

Suppcse you bliy a new car. However, you regret )/our choic.
soof i afterward: "Ihe engine sounds like a jet taking offand _voi
.just can't get cornfbrtable in the driver's seat. What do you dc.:
Giving the car back would be an admission of error (you don'
want thatl), and anyway, the dealer probably wouldn't refunc
all the monelr. So you tell yourself that a loud engine and ar,vk-
rvarci seats are great safety features that will prevent you fror-
falling asleep at the wheel" lrJot so stupid after all, you think
and vou are suddenly proud ofyour sound, practical purchase
Leon Festinger and James M. Carlsmith of Stanford Un:-
r,'ersity once asked their students to carry out an hour of er.-
cruciatingly boring tasks. fhev then divided the subjects ini
two groups. Each student in group A received a dollar (it u.,.,
1959) and instructions to wax lyrical about the work to anothe.:
student waiting outside--in other words, to lie. The same u,,.-
asked of the students in group B, with one dift^erence: Theyw-er.
given $20 fi:r the task. Later, the students had to divulge ho,'
thel. really found the monotonous work. Interestingly, tho..
rvho received only a dollar rated it as significantly more enjol -
a'nie anri interesting. Why? Cne measly dollar was not enous
tor them to lie outright; instead they convinced themselves th:..
the work was not that bad. -[ust as Aesop's fox reinterpreted tL.
situation, so did they. The students who received more didr-
have to justify anything. They had lied and netted $20 for it-
fair deal. They experienced no cognitive dissonance"
Suppose vou apply for ajob and discover you have lost out t
another candidate. Instead of admitting that the other persL-r:
r,vas better suited, you convince yourself that you didn't rrra:
the -job in the first piace; you simoly wanted to test your "ma:-
ket value" and see if vou could get invited for interview.

t 50

I reacted very similarly some time agt-.
: fween investing in two different stocks. -',,
-rch of lts rralue shortly after the purlr
the other stock? the one t hadn't inr-.,.
--ouidn't bring rnyself to admit my errr :
rict: { clistincrly rernember trying to .. .'.
.',-igh the stock was experiencing teetr: :

.rn this remarkahly irrational reaction. I-
r.eed irave b,een even greater if I had p.,-:
'-,urchase the shares until todav. It u-rr. .
. the Aesop fable . "\b,l can play the c1e. .
- r'cu'il neyer get the grapes that war-."

