_--a -:=dLry


i1- a re\\' car. However, you regret your choice
he e:::ine sounds like a jet taking offand you
ror:-:.rLe in the driver's seat. What do you doi
cri rt-ould be an admission of error (you dont
rl-r-a\-. the dealer probably wouldnt refund
r-o:: rellr-ourself that a loud engine and awk-
:a: ialen'features that will prevent you from
he ",r'heel. Not so stupid after all, you think
::rh'proud of your sound, practical purchase.
:r a:rd James M. Carlsmith of Stanford Uni
i their students to czrry out an hour of ex-
rs tasks. They then divided the subjects into
r srudent in group A received a dollar (it was
ions to wax lyrical about the work to another
rutside-in other words, to lie. The same was
:nts in group B, with one difference: Theywere
task. Later, the students had to divulge horr
I the monotonous work. Interestingly, those
r-a dollar rated it as significantly more enjo,r-
nq. \Vhy? One measly dollar was not enough
triqht; instead they convinced themselves that
that bad. Just as Aesop's fox reinterpreted the
'"her-. The students who received more didn't
rthing. They had lied and netted $20 for it-a
:p'erienced no cognitirte dissonance.
rpptrr' for a job and discover you have lost out to
:e. Instead of admitting that the other person
1. r-ou convince yourself that you didn't want
st piace; you simply wanted to test your "n\ar-
t if vou could get invited for interview.

Ilolf $*betr1i

I reacted very similarly some time ago when I had to choose
retween investing in two different stocks. My chosen stock lost
::ruch of its value shortly after the purchase, whereas shares
:r the other stock, the one I hadn't invested in, skyrocketed.
I couldn't bring myself to admit my error. Qrite the reverse,
-r fact: I distinctly remember trying to convince a friend that,
:rough the stock was experiencing teething problems, it stil1
:ad more potential overall. Only cognitioe dissonance cafl ex-
:iain this remarkably irrational reaction. The "potential" would
-:deed have been even greater ifI had postponed the decision
:; purchase the shares until today. It was that friend who told
:re the Aesop fable. "You can play the clever fox al1you want-
: -rt you'l1 never get the grapes that way."

151

