__ _ .^'- __,1..
. - -- l ! -:5 ! I Y


i:re. r'ou can be fairly sure that talent plays a
eh-. r-ou can never be 100 percent, though.)
: g"erple competing, the greater the chances
g:r ,.r'ill repeatedly strike lucky. Perhaps even
x competitors, you establish yourself as a mar-
arrl- r-ears, you can clap yourself on the back.
:tion of talent. But if you are top dog among
s ,i.e.. in the financial markets), you shouldn't
a Bufettesque financial empire just yet; it's
hat vou have simply been very fortunate.
ait before you draw any conclusions. Begin-
levastating, so guard against misconceptions
fieories as a scientist would: Try to disprove
mr- first novel, Thirty-foe, was ready to go, I
rublisher, where it was promptly accepted. For
-lie a genius , altterury sensation. (The chance
:r u'il1 take on a manuscript is one in fifteen
t rnl theory, I then sent the manuscript to ten
er... And I got ten rejection letters. My notion
:d. bringing me swiftly back down to earth.

5S

Sweet Little Lies
Cognitive Dissonance

fox crept up to a vine. He gazed longingly at the fat,
purple, overripe grapes. He placed his front paws
against the trunk of the vine, stretched his neck,

:nd tried to get at the fruit, but it was too high. Irritated, he
:ried his luck again. He launched himself upward, but his
'lv snapped only at fresh air. A third time he leapt with all
::is might-so powerfully that he landed back down on the
tround with a thud. Stil1 not a single leaf had stirred. The fox
:';rned up his nose: "These aren't even ripe yet. Why would
i rvant sour grapes?" Holding his head high, he strode back
-:rto the forest.

The Greek poet Aesop created this fable to illustrate one of
:he most common errors in reasoning. A, inconsistency arose
-,r-hen the fox set out to do something and failed to accomplish
::. He can resolve this conflict in one ofthree ways: (a) by some-
::orv getting at the grapes, (b) by admitting that his skills are
irsufficient, or (c) by reinterpreting what happened retrospec-
::r-e1y. The last option is an example of cognitive dissonance, or,
::ther, its resolution.

