Yhe Ari c.!f Yhinking #leartrv

tion is a reliable indicator of future career success. Patience :":
indeed a virtue.
The older we get and the more selflcontrol we build up, :--r:
more easilywe can delay rewards. Instead of twelve mon1h5. rrr:
happily wait thirteen to take home an additional $100. Ho''"-
ever, if we are offered an instant reward, the incentive has::
be very high for us to postpone the fulfillment. Case in poi:::
the exorbitant interest rates banks charge on credit-card cie:,,:
and other short-term personal loans, both of which exploit,-,-:
must-have-now instincts.
In conclusion: tough instantaneous reward is incredib:n
tempting, hyperbolic discounting is still a flaw. The more polr-=
we gain over our impulses, the better we can avoid this trr
The less power we have over our impulses-for example, u-h*
we are under the influence of alcohol-the more susceptible rie
are. Viewed from the other side: If you sell consumer produc=-
give customers the option of getting their hands on the ire=s
right away. Some people will be willing to pay extra just ::
they don't have to watt. Amazon makes a bundle from this: -{
healthy chunk of the next-day delivery surcharge goes direc-
into its coffers. "Live each day as if it were your last" is a go--,-
idea-once a week.

52

-{rly Lame Excuse
' 3 e c ause" Justification

raffic jam on the highway betu-ee
San F'rancisco: surface repairs. I sr
slowly battling my way through ur

:.::rnt scene in my rearview mirror. Or so
: : -: later, I was again bumper to bumper:
', : :<. Strangely enough, my level of frustrar
"-.. :ime. Why? Reassuringly cheerful sisn
r -::ced: "We're renovating the highwav:,:
the jam reminded me of an experirne:
I":-.-ard psychologist Ellen Langer in the
r,, ::-: into alibrary and waited at a phoroc.-:
" -::-:d. Then she approached the first ir-
--:: rte, I have five pages. May I use rhe \r
i-:::js rate was 60 percent. She repeatei ::
::-: qiving a reason: "Excuse me. I har-e :--.
-:i: \erox machine because I m in a rusii-
-.. :ercent), she was allowed to go aheai. -
^: :: lipeople are in a hurry, you often ie:
* :,: of the line. She tried yet another apt:_

