f as If It Were Your Last-but OnlY

scounting

r the saving: "Live each day as if it were your lasr"
m at least three times in everylifestyle magazirrc
a Jot in erery selFhelp manual's standard reper-
rh a clever 1ine, it makes you none the wiser-
rt lrould happen if you followed it to the lettec
rger brush your teeth, wash your hair, clean the
up tbr rvork, pay the bills. . . . In no time, you
sirli. and perhaps even behind bars. And yet its
enth- noble: It expresses a deep longing, a desire
I'e place huge value on immediacy-much more
:'Eniov each day to the fullest and dont worn-
' is simplv not a smart way to live.
zther receive $1,000 in a year or $1,100 in a
:h? ]Iost people will opt for the larger sum in
i-rvhere else will you find a monthly interest
rt (or 120 percent per annum!). A wise choice,
t rrill compensate you generously for any risks
ing the extra few weeks.

1Lolf Dchelli

Second question: Would you prefer $1,000 today cash on
the table or $1,100 in a month? If you think like most people,
i-ou'll take the $1,000 right away. This is amazing.In both
;ases, if you hold out for just a month longer, you get $100
nore. In the first case, it's simple enough. You figure: "I've
already waited twelve months; whatt one more?" Not in the
.econd case. The introduction of "now" causes us to make in-
.-onsistent decisions. Science calls this phenomenon hyperbolic
Jiscounting. Put plainly: The closer a reward is, the higher our
-emotional interest rate" rises and the more we are willing to
+ve up in exchange for it. The majority of economists have not
'.-et grasped that we respond so subjectively and inconsistently
:o interest rates. Their models still depend on constant interest
:.rtes and are correspondingly questionable.
Hyperbolic discounting, the fact that immediacy magnetizes
:s, is a remnant of our animal past. Animals will never turn
iown an instant reward in order to attain more in the future.
lbu can train rats as much as you like; they're never going to
+1-e up a piece of cheese today to get two pieces tomorrow. But
-n-ait a minute: Dont squirrels manage to gather food and save
:: lbr much later? Yes, but thatt pure instinct and-verifiably-
:-as nothing to do with impulse control or learning.
And what about children? In the '60s, Walter Mischel
:,:nducted a famous experiment on delayed gratification. You
:":.n find a wonderful video of this on Youlube by typing in
'::rarshmallow experiment." In it, a group of four-year-olds
-.ere each given a marshmallow. They could either eat theirs
::ght away or wait a couple of minutes and receive a second.
-dmazingly, very few children could wait. Even more amzz-
-::qly, Mischel found that the capacity for delayed gratifi.ca-

153

