.r.€ ClearlY

ha.r-e live pages. May I go before you because
,me copies?" The result was amazing: Even
rras 1a-hem) paper-thin-after all, everyone
ne to make copies-she was allowed to Pass
line in almost all cases (93 percent).
dtr-'r'our behavior, you encounter more tol-
lness. It seems to matter very little if your
not. Using the simple validation "because" is
proclaiming: "Wete renovating the highwav
:teh-redundant. What else would a mainte-
ro on a highway? Ifyou hadn't noticed before,
i5 going on once you look out the window'
ndedge reassures and calms you. After all,
ru-<trating than being kept in the dark'
FK airport, waiting to board: An announce-
r the loudspeaker: 'Attention, Passengers'
ate,i bv three hours." Wonderful. I walked to
w u-hr'. And came back no more enlightened'
oru dare they leave us waiting in ignorance?
ne the decency to announce: "Flight 5678 is
hours due to operational reasons." A throw-
er there was one, but enough to appease pas-

ple are addicted to the word "becas5g'-56
use it even when it's not necessary. Ifyou are a
lb- io, have witnessed this. If you provide no
plol-ee motivation dwindles. It simply doesnt
ro sar- that the purpose of your shoe company
re tborwear. No, today, higher purposes and
the story are all-important, such as: "We want

Rolf ilcbeitri

-'ur shoes to revolutionrze the market" (whatever that means).
-Better arch support for abetter world!" (whatever that means).
Zappo's claims that it is in the happiness business (whatever
::lat means).
If the stock market rises or falls by half a percent, you will
::er.er hear the true cause from stock market commentators-
-}at it is white noise, the culmination of an infinite number of
rarket movements. No: People want apalpable reason, and the
;ommentator is happy to select one. Whatever explanation he
:tters will be meaningless-with frequent blame applied to the
rronouncements of Federal Reserve Bank presidents.
If someone asks why you have yet to complete a task, it,s
rest to say: "Because I havent got around to it yet." Itt a pa-
:hetic excuse (had you done so, the conversation wouldnt be
:aking place), but it usually does the trick without the need to
.cramble for more plausible reasons.
One day I watched my wife carefully separating black laun-
Jry from blue. As far as I know, this effort isnt necessary.
Both are dark colors, right? Such logic has managed to keep
ny clothes run-free for many years. "Why do you do that?" I
asked. "Because I prefer to wash them separately." For me, a
perfectly fine answer.
Never leave home without "because." This unassuming little
rvord greases the wheels of human interaction. Use it unre-
strainedly.

157

