?h* Art *f ?hixking e i**riy

ing: "Excuse me. I have five pages. May I go before you becau::
I have to make some copies?" The result was amazing: Et-r'
though the pretext was (a-hem) paper-thin-,atter all, everyo:-=
was standing in line to make copies-she was allowed to pa,,
to the front of the line in almost all cases (93 percent).
When you justify your behavior, you encounter more tc--
erance and helpfulness. It seems to matter very little if vo--:
excuse is good or not. Using the simple validation "because" r,
sufficient. A sign proclaiming: "We're renovating the highu'.'
for you" is completely redundant. What else would a maint.-
nance crerv be up to on a highway? Ifyou hadn't noticed befor.
you reahze what is going on once you look out the windo...,
And yet this knowledge reassures and calms you. After a-,
nothing is more frustrating than being kept in the dark.
Gate A57 atJFK airport, waiting to board: An announce -
ment comes over the loudspeaker: 'Attention, passenger:
Flight \234 rs delayed by three hours." Wonderful. I walked :
the desk to find out why. And came back no more enlightenec
I was furious: How dare they leave us waiting in ignorance :
Other airlines have the decency to announce: "Flight 5678 :.
delayed by three hours due to operational reasons." A thror,.'-
away reason if ever there was one, but enough to appease pa.-
sengers.
It seems people are addicted to the word "becauss"-i
much so that we use it even when it's not necessary. If you are ,
leader, undoubtedly you have witnessed this. If you provide r:-
rallying cal1, ernployee motivation dwindles. It simply doesn:
make the grade to say that the purpose of your shoe compan-.
is to manufacture footwear. No, today, higher purposes an-
the story behind the story are all-important, such as: "We wan.

156

-,r shoes to revolutionize the market" (u-r
3etter arch support for a better worldl" (ri
lrppo'.s claims that it is in the happine s.
- -;rt means).
If the stock market rises or falls by ha-,
.rter hear the true cause from stock ma:.;
' -..rt it is white noise, the cuimination oi ":-
':rket movements. No: People want a pa :
:rmentator is happy to select one. Wh-.:
::rs will be meaningless-with frequen:
: ',rrouncements of Federal Reserve Ban\ -
If someone asks why you have yet ro :
:ii to sz/l "Because I haven't got aroult-
-'r:ic excuse (had you done so, the cor-,-:
.,:ng place), but it usually does the trrci
---mble for more piausible reasons.
Jne day I watched my wife carefull,, .. -
" trom blue. As far as I know, this ._
r are dark colors, right? Such logic :,.
:1othe s run-free for many years. "\\-:-
..-d. "Because I prefer to wash them .:--
-=ct1y fine answer.
\e".er leave home without "because." .-
:-: greases the wheels of human in:.:.-
. redly.

=
F...i'

