kieg Clearly

indicator of future career success. Patience is

get and the more self:control we build up, thc
ra delav rewards. Instead of twelve months, we
rteen to take home an additional $100' Horr-
,Ifered an instant reward, the incentive has to
us to postpone the fulfil1ment. Case in poinc
xterest rates banks charge on credit-card debt
terrn personal loans, both of which exploit our
instincts.
n: Though instantaneous reward is incredibh
b'lic discounting is stil1 a flaw. The more power
rr impulses, the better we can avoid this trap
re have over our impulses-for example, when
e influence of alcohol-the more susceptible $c
m the other side: If you sell consumer products'
tk option of getting their hands on the items
ne people will be willing to pzy extra just so
to n'ait. Amazon makes a bundle from this: A
of the next-day delivery surcharge goes directlr
'Live each day as if it were your 1ast" is a good
tek.

52

Any Lame Excuse
' B e e au s e" Justi fic at ion

raffic jam on the highway between Los Angeles and
San Francisco: surface repairs. I spent thirty minutes
s1ow1y battling my way through until the chaos was a

listant scene in my rearview mirror. Or so I thought. Half an
:our later, I was again bumper to bumper: more maintenance
'.tork. Strangely enough, my level of frustration was much lower
:iris time. Why? Reassuringly cheerful signs along the road an-
:ounced: "We're renovating the highway for you!"
The jam reminded me of an experiment conducted by the
Harvard psychologist Ellen Langer in the 1970s. For this, she
".r-ent into a library and waited at a photocopier until a line had
:,rrmed. Then she approached the first in line and said: "Ex-
rse me, I have five pages. May I use the Xerox machine?" Her
:uccess rate was 60 percent. She repeated the experiment, this
:me giving a reason: "Excuse me. I have five pages. May I use
-ire Xerox machine because I'm in a rush?" In almost al1 cases
9-l percent), she was allowed to go ahead. This is understand-
able: Ifpeople are in a hurry, you often let them cut in to the
:ront of the line. She tried yet another approach, this time say-

