KE
IlEJ

Decide Better-Decide Less
Decision Fatigue

or weeks, you've been working to the point of exhaus-
tion on this presentation. The PowerPoint slides are
polished. Each figure in Excel is indisputable. The

pitch is aparadigm ofcrystal-clear logic. Everything depen&
on your presentation. If you get the green light from the CEO.
you're on your way to a corner office. If the presentation flops.
youte on your way to the unemployment office. The CEO's as-
sistant proposes the following times for the presentation: 8:00
a.m., 11:30 a.m., or 6:00 p.m. Which slot do you choose?
The psychologist Roy Baumeister and collaborator Jean
Twenge once covered a table with hundreds of inexpensirc
items-from tennis balls and candles to Tshirts, chewing gum.
and Coke cans. He divided his students into two groups. The
first group he labeled "deciders," the second, "non-deciders.'
He told the first group: "I'm going to show you sets contain-
ing two random items and each time you have to decide which.
you prefer. At the end of the experiment I'll give you one item
you can take home." They were led'to believe that their choice,-
would influence which item they get to keep. To the seconi

3roup, he said: "Write down what you thil
:nd I'11 pick one and give it to you at the
:hereafter, he asked each student to put th
x-ater and hold it there as long as possible. L
i classic method to measure willpower or sr
:ave little or none, you yank your hand ba
-,'erv quickly. The result: fhe deciders pull
:,i the icy water much sooner than the nor
::ltensive decision making had drained their
:ict confirmed in many other experiments.
Making decisions is exhausting. Anyone
:$red a laptop online or researched a long t
;.ctivities, restaurants, weather-knows this
::lmparing, considering, and choosing, you ;
=ce calls this decisionfatigue.
Decision fatigue is perilous: As a consu
-ore susceptible to advertising messages a
-{s a decision maker
i\ illpower is like " J;l3ilI#i;'#:;7
:. be recharged. How do you do this? Br.u
-;-ting, and eating something. Willpower pi:
.,:,:rr blood sugar falls too low. IKEA knou-s i
--)n the trek through its mazelike displar.ar
*;.rehouse shelves, decision fatigze sets in. F<
=;taurants are located right in the middle c
:,: npanl is willing to sacrifice some of its pro:
"r'-- r can top up your blood sugar on Srvedish
;.;:ning your hunt for the perfect candlesticks
Four prisoners in an Israelijail petitioned r
--ease. Case 1 (scheduled for g:50 a.m.): an I

