-Decide Less
ue

" 1'ou\'e been working to the point of exhaus-
rhis p165s.tation. The PowerPoint slides are
. Each figure in Excel is indisputable. The
;m oi crvstal-clear logic. Everything depends
ion. If vou get the green light from the CEO.
Tr- to a corner office. If the presentation flops,
n-to the unemployment office. The CEO's as-
rhe following times for the Presentation: 8:00
or 6:00 p.m. Which slot do you choose?
gist Roy Baumeister and collaborator Jean
n-ered a table with hundreds of inexpensive
ais balls and candles to T:shirts, chewing gum,
He divided his students into two groups. The
beled "deciders," the second, "non-deciders-"
: group: "I'm going to show you sets contain-
items and each time you have to decide which
r end of the experiment I'11give you one itern
ne .- They were led to believe that their choices
which item they get to keep. To the second

Rotrf $cbetr}i

rroup, he said: "Write down what you think about each item,
and I'11 pick one and give it to you at the end." Immediately
rhereafter, he asked each student to put their hand in ice cold
rvater and hold it there as long as possible. In psychology, this is
a classic method to measure willpower or selFdiscipline; if you
nave little or none, you yank your hand back out of the water
r-ery quickly. The result: The deciders pulled their hands out
ri the icy water much sooner than the non-deciders did. The
intensive decision making had drained their willpower-an eF
:ect confirmed in many other experiments.
Making decisions is exhausting. Anyone who has ever con-
igured a laptop online or researched a long trip-flight, hotels,
"ictivities, restaurants, weather-knows this well: After all the
:omparing, considering, and choosing, you are exhausted. Sci-
:nce calls this decisionfatigue.
Decision fatigue is perilous: As a consumer, you become
Tore susceptible to advertising messages and impulse buys.
-\s a decision maker, you are more prone to erotic seduction.
\\'illpower is like abattery. After a while it runs out and needs
:,: be recharged. How do you do this? By taking a break, re-
-rxing, and eating something. Willpower plummets to zero if
',,our blood sugar falls too low. IKEA knows this only too well:
On the trek through its mazelike display areas and towering
-,rarehouse shelves, decisionfatigue sets in. For this reason, its
tstaurants are located right in the middle of the stores. The
:ompany is willing to sacrifice some of its profit margin so that
iou can top up your blood sugar on Swedish treats before re-
.uming your hunt for the perfect candlesticks.
Four prisoners in an Israeli jail petitioned the court for early
:elease. Case L (scheduled for 8:50 a.m.): an Arab sentenced to

159

