?he Art *f ?hinkir:.g Ciearly

ence for such symbols: The bishop's unique appeal to their con-
science spread throughout Europe, promoting the "Peace ani
Truce of God." "One should never underestimate the fear o:
saints in the Middle Ages and of saints'relics," says America::
historian Philip Daileader.
As an enlightened person, you can only laugh at this silh
superstition. But wait: What if I put it to you this way? Woul;
you put on a freshly laundered sweater that Hitler had onc.
worn? Probably not, right? So, it seems that you haven't 1o':
all respect for intangible forces, either. Essentially, this sweate:
has nothing to do with Hitler anymore. There isn't a singl;
molecule of Hitler's sweat on it. However, the prospect of put-
ting it on still puts you off. It's more than just a matter of re-
spect. Yes, we want to project a "correct" image to our fel1or"
humans and to ourselves, but the thought puts us offeven whe::
we are alone and when we convince ourselves that touchin:
this sweater does not endorse Hitler in any way. This emotiona-
reaction is difficult to override. Even those who consider them-
selves quite rational have a hard time completely banishing the
belief in mysterious forces (me included).
Mysterious powers of this kind can't simply be switchei
off. Paul Rozin and his research colleagues at the Universir-,
of Pennsylvania asked test subjects to bring in photos of lor-e;
ones. These were pinned to the center of targets and the sub-
jects had to shoot darts at them. Riddling a picture with dar:.
does no harm to the person in it but, nevertheless, the subjecrs'
hesitation was palpable. They were much less accurate than ;
control group that had shot at regular targets beforehand. T}l;
test subjects behaved as if a mystic force prevented them fro::
hitting the photos.

t62

the contagion bias describes how we ar
:ng the connection we feel to certain item:
:go or only indirectly related (as with tl
-,','as a longtime war correspondent for thr
,':sion channel France 2. Jur;t as passenp
::-.rise take home souvenirs from each isla
::.inted coconut-my friend also collected
.iventures. One of her last missions was r
r few hours after American troops stor
.tin's government palace, she crept into tht
:--e dining room) she spotted six gold-pla
::,rmptly commandeered them. When I
::::ner parties in Paris recently, the gilded
- -:ce on the dining table. 'Are these from (
.-: person asked. "No, they are from Sai
,"1 candidly. A horrified guest spat his
.l-..s and began to splutter uncontrollabl.i-.
'-:'--u realize how many molecules you\-e .
:.idam, simply by breathing?,' I asked. *-
:r:lrh." His cough got even worse.

