ring Clearly


rbols: The bishop's unique appeal to their con-
roughout Europe, promoting the "Peace and
One should never underestimate the fear of
dle Ages and of saints' relics," says American
)aileader.
ened person, /ou can only laugh at this siliy
rait: What if I put it to you this way? Would
shh- iaundered sweater that Hitler had once
not, right? So, it seems that you haven't lost
mgible forces, either. Essentially, this sweater
lo rvith Hitler anymore. There isn't a singie
:r"s su'eat on it. However, the prosPect of put-
rts )-ou off. Itt more than just a matter of re-
ent to project a "correct" image to our fellow
urselr-es, but the thought puts us offeven when
il q'hen we convince ourselves that touching
; oot endorse Hitler tfl afiy way. This emotional
lk to override. Even those who consider them-
nd har-e a hard time completely banishing the
rrs tbrces (me included).
lovrers of this kind can't simply be switched
and his research colleagues at the Universitr
asked test subjects to bring in photos ofloved
e pinned to the center oftargets and the sub-
r darts at them. Riddling a picture with darts
the person in it but, nevertheless, the subjects
esable. They were much less accurate than a
c had shot at regular targets beforehand. The
sr,cd as if a mystic force prevented them fiom

os.

H,clf Dohelli

'Ihe contagion bias describes how we are incapable of ignor-
ing the connection we feel to certain items-be they from long
ago or only indirectly related (as with the photos). A friend
was a longtime war correspondent for the F'rench public tele-
vision channel France 2. Just as passengers on a Caribbean
cruise take home souvenirs from each island-a straw hat or a
painted coconut-my friend also collected mementos from her
adventures. One of her last missions was to Baghdad in 2003.
A few hours after American troops stormed Saddam Hus-
sein's government palace, she crept into the private quarters. In
the dining room, she spotted six gold-plated wineglasses and
promptly commandeered them. When I attended one of her
dinner parties in Paris recently, the gilded goblets had pride of
place on the dining table. 'Are these from Galeries Lafayette?,,
one person asked. "No, they are from Saddam Hussein,,, she
said candidly. A horrified guest spat his wine back into the
glass and began to splutter uncontrollably. I had to contribute:
-You realize how many molecules you've akeady shared with
Saddam, simply by breathing?" I asked. 'About a billion per
breath." His cough got even worse.

163

