:: the middle-in which case you could e
-:r averages is a risky undertaking because
:nderlying distribution-the way the valu
Another example: The average amounl
=rposed to on a June day is not harmful
.: \'ou were to spend the entire summer i
::ren fly to Barbados and 1ie in the sun rvir
-,*'eek solid, you would have aproblem_e.l
iie over the summer, you were not gettinq
;r,rneone who was regulaf outside.
A1l this is quite straightforward and ma
,: rt already. For example, you drink one e
t':lner every evening. That,s not a health i
:.;ommend it. But if you drink no alcohol
::- December 31 you gulp 356 glasses, u_h
.rr:r'bottles, you will have a problem, ai:
;",-er the year is the same.
Here's the update: In a complex worlC.
::ring more and more irregular. In othe:
"::-'-e the Bill Gates phenomenon in ever n:
::-rr- visits does an a'':erage website get: Ti
r-= no average websites. A handful of sites
'i:'i Times, Facebook, or Google) garner ri.
r;, and countless other pages draw compa:a
:i.,:s, mathematicians speak of the so_calle.
:::::s. There is one city on this planet u.irh a :
::: rhirty million: Tokyo. There are eler.er: .
-r"::rn of between twenty and thirty millior
::=s with a population of between ren a:r.
l--=:e are forty-eight cities between fir,e ani :

Why There Is No Such Thing as an Average War

The Problem with Averages

uppose you're on a bus with forty-nine other people. -t
the next stop, the heaviest person in America gets o:-
Qrestion: By how much has the average weight of r:c

passengers increased? Four percent? Five? Something like ths:r
Suppose the bus stops again, and on gets Bill Gates. This tir:r
we are not concerned about weight. Qrestion: By how muc:
has the average uealth risen? Four percent? Five? Far from itl
Let's calculate the second example quickly. Suppose each cf
fifty randomly selected individuals has assets of $54,000. TLx
is the statistical middle va1ue, the median. Then Bill Gates r;
added to the mix, with his fortune of around $59 billion. ll:
average wealth has just shot up to $1.15 billion, an increase :,r
more than two million percent. A single outlier has radica-:
altered the picture, rendering the term "average" complete;,
meaningless.
"Don't cross a river if it is (on average) four feet deepi' war:s
Nassim Taleb, from whom I have the above examples. The rirz
can be very shallow for long stletches-mere inches-bur :.
might transform into a raging torrent that is twenty feet dee:

