Y]:l* Art q:f Thii'rking Clearl3r

itants. And thousands (!) between one and five miilion. That's a
power law. A few extremes dominate the distribution, and the
concept of average is rendered worthless.
What is the ^yerage size of a company? What is the ar'-
erage population of a city? What is an average war (in terrn-.
of deaths or duration)? What is the average daily fluctuation
in the Dow Jones? What is the average cost overrun of con-
struction projects? How many copies does an average book selli
What is the average amount of damage a hurricane wreaksi
What is a banker's average bonus? What is the average success
of a marketing campaign? How many downloads does ^n avet'
age iPhone app get? How much money does an average actor
earn? Of course you can calculate the answers, but it would bc
a waste of time. These seemingly routine scenarios are subject
to the power law.
To use just the final example: A handful of actors take horm
more than $10 million peryear,while thousands and thousands
live on the breadline. Would you advise your son or daughter m
get into acting since the average wage is Pretty decent? HoP*
fully not-wrong reason.
In conclusion: If someone uses the word "averager" thint
twice. Try to work out the underlying distribution. If a singk
anomaly has almost no influence on the set, the concept is still
worthwhile. However, when extreme cases dominate (such as
the Bill Gates phenomenon), we should discount the term "ar*
erage." We should all take stock from novelist William Gibsor
"The future is already here-it's just not very evenly distriF
uted."

56

166

How Bonuses Destroy Motivation

llotivation Crowding

few months ago, a friend from Cc
to move to New York City. This n
collection ofantiques, such as exqu

:indblown Murano glasses from generation
i-ached he was to them, and how anxious l
-:rq them over to a moving company, so the lz
:iered to carry the most fragile items with m
:-,- the city. Two weeks later I got a thank-\n
n:-; a 950 bil1.

For years, Switzerland has been consideri
r. radioactive waste. The authorities consider
j:,cations for the underground repositon, inc
:i \Volfenschiessen in the center of the cor
3:--rno Frey and his fellow researchers at the
:ch traveled there and recorded people's op
::niry meeting. Surprisingly, 50.g percent rr-
:,t':,posal. Their positive response can be arn
iu-:ors: national pride, common decencr,, soci
rr-,spect of new jobs, and so on. The team ca-

