, No Such Thing as an Average War
rith Averages

xrie on a bus with forty-nine other people' At
stop, the heaviest person in America gets on-
: Br- hou, much has the average weight of the
r-.edi Four percent? Five? Something like thati
stops again, and on gets Bill Gates. This time
erned about weight. Qrestion: By how much
uealib risen? Four percent? Five? Far from itl
r the second example quickly. Suppose each of
elected individuals has assets of $54,000. ThL'
middle value, the median. Then Bill Gates is
-r, s'ith his fortune of around $59 billion. The
ire-. iust shot up to $1.15 billion, an increase ot-
mi-iIion percent. A single outlier has radicalh-
ure. rendering the term "average" completeh

a rir-er if rt is (on arterage) four feet deep," warns
iom u hom I have the above examples. The river
rllorr tbr long stretches-mere inches-but it
a into a raging torrent that is twenty feet deep

5?,olf Sobelli

in the middle-in which case you could easily drown. Dealing
in averages is a risky undertaking because they often mask the
underlying distribution-the way the values stack up.
Another example: The average amount of UV rays you are
exposed to on a June day is not harmful to your health. But
if you were to spend the entire summer in a darkened office,
then fly to Barbados and lie in the sun without sunscreen for a
rveek solid, you would have a problem-even though, on aver-
age over the summerr /ou were not getting more UV light than
someone who was regularly outside.
All this is quite straightforward and maybe you were awate
of it already. For example, you drink one glass of red wine for
dinner every evening. That's not a health issue. Many doctors
recommend it. But if you drink no alcohol the entire year and,
on December 31 you gulp 356 glasses, which is equivalent to
:ixty bottles, you will have a problem, although the average
over the year is the same.
Here's the update: In a complex world, distribution is be-
;oming more and more irregular. In other words, we will ob_
serve the Bill Gates phenomenon in ever more domains. How
=rany visits does an average website get? The answer is: There
lre no average websites. A handful of sites (such as the Neut
\Zrk Times, Facebook, or Google) garner the majority of vis-
::s, and countless other pages draw comparutively few. In such
;ases, mathematicians speak of the so-called power law. Take
ities. There is one city on this planet with a population of more
:ran thirty million: Tokyo. There are eleven cities with a popu_
-ation of between twenty and thirty million. fhere are fifteen
::ties with a population of between ten and twenty million.
There are forty-eight cities between five and ten milrion inhab-

165

