?l-:e Art *f Y?ainking e !ear.LY

vey a second time, but this time they mentioned a hypothel-
cal reward of $5,000 for each townsperson, paid for by Srvi::
taxpayers, if theywere to accept the proposal. What happenec-:
Results plummeted: Only 24.6 percent were willing to endorx
the proposal.
Another example is children's day care centers. Day crt
workers face the same issue the world over: parents collectin-r
their children after closing time. The staffhas no choice but::
wait. They can hardly put the last remaining children in taxis "r
leave them on the curb. To discourage parental tardiness, marr
nurseries introduced fees for lateness. Ironically, studies shcw
that tardiness actually increased. Of course, they could har':
instituted a draconian penalty of, say, $500 for each hour-;*o
they could have offered $1 million to each citizen of the smJ
Swiss village. But that's beside the point. The point is: Small-
surprisingly small-monetary incentives crowd out other n-Pei
of incentives.
The three stories illustrate one thing: Money does not i-
ways motivate. Indeed, in many cases, it does just the opposilc
When my friend slipped me that fifty, he undermined my goo':
deed-and also tainted our friendship. The offer of comper-
sation for the nuclear repository was perceived as a bribe al:
cheapened the community and patriotic spirit' The nursen-";
late fees transformed its relationship with Parents from inte:-
personal to monetafy, and essentially legitimized their latene.s
Science has a name for this phenomenon: motittation crlL';-
ing.When people do something for well-meaning, nonmone-
tary reasons-out of the goodness of their hearts, so to speak-
payments throw a wrench into the works. Financial reu-a:j
erodes any other motivations.

168

Suppose you run a nonprofit orgailzat
',','ages you pay are quite modest. Neverthele
i:e highly motivated because they belier-e
i:ference. If you suddenly introduce a bonr-
i .mall salary increase for every donation se
:-:'*^ding will commence. Your team u'ii1 b
:::at bring no extra reward. Creativin. co
r:::orvledge transfer-none of this will mai:
; " efforts will zoom in on attracting dona:r.
So who is safe from moti,uation cro-;',ii,:
.=-p: Do you know any private bankers, ins:
:-.rcial auditors who do their jobs out oipas,
.--. a higher mission? I don't. Financial in;.
:.:nce bonuses work well in industries r,.'i'
;:-ring jobs-industries where emplovees ,
:::ducts or the companies and do the rvork .
r=: a paycheck. On the other hand, if r-ou c:,
'*:uld be wise to enlist employee enthusif,:
-:npany's endeavor rather than try to en:i,
'-::r- bonuses, which you couldnt pay an\11-:
One final tip for those of you who ha..-:
::-;e shows that young people are not for s ,',
r-is to do their homework, practice musl;
:',':n mow the lawn once in a while, do no::
r:. Instead, give them a fixed amount oi:
*.:k. Otherwise, they will exploit the sr-s::
:- lo to bed without recompense.

