:::.::3 Clearly
xe. but this time they mentioned a hypotheti
5.,i00 for each townsperson, paid for by Swiss
'1'l\-ere to accePt the proposal. What happenedi
::ei: Only 24.6 percent were willing to endorse

i:rple is children's dzy carc centers. Day care
c s;me issue the world over: parents collectin:
-::e: closing time. The staffhas no choice but tc
:.:.:ill put the last remaining children in taxis o:
he curb. To discourage parental tardiness, mant
j;ctd ttes for lateness. lronically, studies shou
:;r-rallr' increased. Of course, they could havt
i;o:rian penalty of, say, $500 for each hour--
e oiered $1 million to each cittzen of the sma*
]:r:hat's beside the point. The point is: Smail-
' ;:l-s-16n.1ary incentives crowd out other tvpr;

.:--,:les illustrate one thing: Money does not '-
Ii:ieed, in many cases, it does just the opposi:=
:; slioped me that fifty, he undermined my go':':
.,: r:inted our friendship. The offer of coffipe:-
:: c-ear repository was perceived as a bribe a:'':
: cor-rmuniry and patriotic spirit. The nurse:n'i
::::::ed its relationship with parents from in:t:-
):re:-11', and essentially legitimized their laten*i
i ; :ri:rle for this phenomenon: moti't'tation cr;'*'"t-
-.:.: do something for well-meaning, nonmor:i:-
-:::,:t the goodness oftheir hearts, so to spea-'i-
-rG- l \\'rench into the works. Financial "tt"'

:3: :toii\-ations.

ltolf ilol-.el]l

Suppose you run a nonprofit organization. Logically, the
lvages yor pay are quite modest. Nevertheless, your employees
are highiy motivated because they believe they are -uki.,g ,
difference. If you suddenly introduce a bonus system_let,s say
a small salary increase for every donation secured-moti,ation
:rouding will commence. your team will begin to snub tasks
that bring no extra reward. Creativity, company reputation,
<nowledge transfer-none of this will matter anymore. Soon,
:11 efforts will zoom in on attracting donations.
So who is safe from motir.tation crowdizg? This tip should
:reip: Do you know any private bankers, insurance agents, or fi_
rancial auditors who do their jobs out of passion or who believe
:n a higher mission? I don't. Financiar incentives and perfor-
:rance bonuses work well in industries with generally unin_
:piring jobs-industries where employees aren,t proud of the
:roducts or the companies and do the work simply because they
ret a paycheck. On the other hand, ifyou create a start_up, you
',,rould be wise to enlist employee enthusiasm to promote the
:ompanyt endeavor rather than try to entice employees with
_':icy bonuses, which you couldn,t pay anyway.
One final tip for those of you who have children: Experi_
=nce shows that young people are not for sale. If you want your
ids to do their homework, practice musical instruments, or
:',-en mow the lawn once in a while, do not reach for your wal_
-:t. Instead, give them a fixed amount of pocket money each
,oeek. Otherwise, theywill exploit the system and soon refuse
:l go to bed without recompense.

169

