li:: g Cleariy


sands (l)berween one and five million. That's e
F e\-tremes dominate the distribution, and thc
p is rendered worthless.
al-erage size of a company? What is the ar'-
r of a cin'? What is an average war (in terms
ztion)i What is the aver^ge daily fluctuatim
:si \\'hat is the average cost overrun of con-
si Hou'mary copies does an average book selli
ragr amount of damage a hurricane wreaksi
r\ aterage bonus? What is the average succes$
rmpaiqni How many downloads does an aver-
geti Horv much money does an average act(r
rou can calculate the answers, but it would be
These seemingly routine scenarios are subject

c final example: A handful of actors take homc
rillion per year, while thousands and thousands
line . \\/ould you advise your son or daughter m
ince the average wage is pretty decent? HoP*
g reason.
r: If someone uses the word "averager" think
rrk out the underlying distribution. If a singh
lost no influence on the set, the concept is still
irryisl-er, when extreme cases dominate (such as
knomenon), we should discount the term "ar
ld all take stockfrom novelistWilliam Gibson:
rlreadl' here-it's just not very evenly distrib-

How Bonuses Destroy Motivation

56

Motivation Crowding

A few months ago, a friend from Connecticut decided
fI ::,ffi : j:il::,H:,::T ffi ; n.Tl ; *l:iTj
handblown Murano glasses from generations ago. I knew how
attached he was to them, and how anxious he would be hand_
:ng them over to a moving company, so the last time I visited, I
'rft-ered to carry the most fragile items with me when I returned
.o the city. Two weeks later I got a thank_you letter. Enclosed
,,r-as a $50 bill.

For years, Switzerland has been considering where to store
:ts radioactive waste. The authorities considered a few different
locations for the underground repository, including the village
rf wolfenschiessen in the center of the country. Economist
Bruno Frey and his fellow researchers at the University of Zt_
:ich traveled there and recorded people,s opinions at a com_
runity meeting. Surprisingly, 50.g percent \^/ere in favor of the
:roposal' Their positive response can be attributed to severar
ictors: national pride, common decency, social obligation, the
:rospect of new jobs, and so on. The team carried out the sur-

