Ery

If You Have Nothing to Say, Say Nothing

Twaddle Tendency

hen asked why a fifth of Americans were unabie
to locate their country on a world map, Miss Teer
South Carolina, a high school graduate, gave thr'

answer in front of rolling cameras: "I personally believe tha:
U.S. Americans are unable to do so because some people ou:
there in our nation don't have maPS, and I believe that our edu-
cation like such as South Africa and the Iraq everywhere lik:
such as and I believe that they should our education over her:
in the U.S. should help the U.S., should help South Africa, arJ
should help the lraq and the Asian countries, so we willbe at'.:
to build up our future." The video went viral.
Catastrophic, you agtee, but you don't waste too much tirnt
listening to beauty queens. Okay, how about the following ser--
tence? "There is certainly no necessity that this increasinE:r
reflexive transmission of cultural traditions be associated rri::
subject-centered reason and future-oriented historical co=
sciousness. To the extent that we become aware of the intr-
subj ective constitution of freedon\, the pos sessive-individual' si
illusion of autonomy as selflownership disintegrates." Ring a:-'

::ilsi Top German philosopher and sociolos
::.s in Betuseen Facts and Norms.
Both of these are manifestations of the ';
:-:-e tuaddle tendency. Here, reams of 'rr-ori=
;:ise intellectual laziness, stupidiry or unie
::rretimes it works, sometimes not. For the
i:::oke screen strategy failed spectacularlr.
-.. rvorked so far. The more eloquent the h
--rre easily we fall for them. If used in co:.
:-:4crity bias, srch drivel can be especiallr :,
I myself have fallen for the tvtaddle ten.il:'
.-, rs. When I was younger, French philos,::
..:: fascinated me. I devoured his books. t'ur
-::-ection I still couldn't understand much.
*-:::ings took on a mysterious aura, and the
::-1'e me to write my dissertation on philoso:
:' ::i were tomes of useless chatter-Derri:
-.:irn. In my ignorance, I had turned mr-=e
-i-iing smoke machine.
the tuaddle tendency is especiallv rile :r
--:-r'iewers push equally breathless footb''
:L ','.-n the components of the game, lyhen a-
. -\Ve lost the game-it's really that simple.'
:;. :o fill airtime somehow-and seemingir '
:,. 'rbbering away, and by compelling the ari
: rin in. Jabber disguises ignorance,
This phenomenon has also taken rooi
";:-.res. The fewer results a branch of scie:
:r: -:e babble is necessary. Particularly expos(
v--.:h we can see in their comments and e,

