othing to Say, Say Nothing

rney

asked rvhv a fifth of Americans were unabh
care rheir country on a world map, Miss Teen
h Carolina, a high school graduate, gave thi*
t rolling cameras: "I personally believe thaa
"re unable to do so because some people out
r don t have maps, and I believe that our edu-
s South Africa and the Iraq everywhere like
:re that they should our education over here
help the U.S., shouid help South Africa, and
q end the Asian countries, so we will be able
ure.'The video went viral.
rxr agree, but you dont waste too much tirne
'queens. Okay, how about the following sen-
rrtainly no necessity that this increasingh
ion of cultural traditions be associated with
eason and future-oriented historical con-
sxtent that we become aware of the inter-
rion of freedom, the possessive-individualipt
l'as selFownership disintegrates.,, Ring anv

I?,0if D0b€IIi

bells? Top German philosopher and sociorogistJrirgen Haber-
mas in Betueen Facts and Norms.
Both of these are manifestations of the same phenomenon,
the tvsaddle tendency_ Here, reams of words are used to dis_
guise intellectual ,laziness, stupidity, or underdeveloped ideas.
Sometimes it works, sometimes no,.'F.o, the beauty queen, the
srnoke screen strategl failed spectacularly. F.or Habermas, it
has worked so far. The more eloqu..,t ,;:;;;.i*.r1" ".
more eas,y we farl for them. If used in conjunction with the
euthoritl bias, such drivel can be especially dangerous.
I myself have fallen for the t*oddt, tendencyon many occa_
=ions. When I was
rid a rascina,. r _.' ffi fiT*ilJ;::1T:rff,::::,T;
reflection I still couldnt understand much. Subsequently his
tritings took on a mysterious aura, and the whole .rp.r"r."
lrove me to write my dissertation on philosophy. In retrospect,
:oth were tomes of useless chatterjDerrida and my disser-
:arion. In my ignorance, I had turned myself into a walking,
:alking smoke machine.

'Ihe tzt:addle tendency is especiaily rife in sporr. Breathless
-nrerviewers push equalry breathless footbarl players to break
lown the components of the game, when all they want to say
is: "We lost the game_it,s rrullythut ri_pl.J;;;;il;;.,**
:]as to fill airtime somehow_rrra ,."r.ri.rgty the best method is
:'v jabbering away, andby compelling rhe athletes and coaches
--o j_oin in. Jabber disguises igrroru.r.J
this phenomenon hr, ,lro taken root in the academic
.pheres. The fewer results a branch of science publishes, the
rrore babble is necesr
,,, h i ch we c a n,..,,' il:;:::::'#l ;:::ffi ,.j illTill

777

