?he "{rt *f Y?:inking C}ear}y

move a few of lfs shares to B and C-picking exactly those -:,-
vestments that have been pulling down lfs average returns' l'r
which are still profitable enough to fortify B and C. In no tir,:
all three funds look much healthier. And, because the tra::-
formation happened in-house, you don't incur a single fee. [f
course, the combined value of the trio hasn't risen by a sin:c
cent, but people will still pat you on the back.
This effect is called "stage migration" or the Will R;:::
phenameruon named after an American comedian from OL;*
homa. He is said to have joked that Oklahomans who pack ':
and move to California raise both states' aYerage IQ Since *r
rarely recognize such scenarios, let's drill the Will Rogers tit'
namenln to anchor it in your memory.
One good example is an auto franchise. Let's say you ti';:
charge of two small branches in the same town with a tot'L :r
six salesmen: numbers 1,2, and 3 in branch A, and numbers i'
5, and 6 in branch B. On average, salesman number 1 sel1s o:r
car per week, salesman number 2 sells two cars per week, ani ::
on up to top salesman number 6, who shifts six cars each u'ees
With a littie calcuiation, you know that branch A sells two c':*,
per salesman, rnhereas branch B is far aheadwith an average -f
five cars per salesman per week. You decide to transfer salesn;:
number 4 to branch A. What happens? Its average sales incre;--c
to 2.5 units per person. And branch B? It now consists of or::'
two salesmen, numbers 5 and 6. Its average sales increase to -:*:
per person. Such switcheroo strategies dont change anythi:{
overall, but they create an impressive illusion. For this reasc':-
journalists, investors, and board members should be on spec:i
alert when they hear of rising urJr"g". in countries, compani*-
departments, cost centers, or product lines'

t74

A particularly deceitful case of the l4'ii
-. tound in medicine. Tumors are usuallr
:rur stages: The smallest and most treatabl
i: stage one; the worst are rated stage fou
i:1-es us the term "stage migration." The sur
:-r stage one patients and lowest for stage
:';ery year new procedures are released o:
i"ow for more accurate diagnosis. These r
:-:ques reveal minuscule tumors that no doc
:,r:bre. The result: Patients who were e:r,
i. healthy before are now counted as srag
;:dition of relatively healthy people into :
:-.reases the group's ayerage life expectar:.
i -;cess? Unfortunately not: merc stage mig.

