iking Clearly


3 shares to B and C-picking exactly those in-
are been pulling down lfs average returns, br.tr
rofitable enough to fortify B and C. In no time'
bok much healthier. And, because the trans-
:red in-house, you don't incur a single fee. Of
bined value of the trio hasn't risen by a singh
will still pat you on the back.
5 c-lled 'stage migration" or the Will Rogen
ned arter an American comedian from Oklr
I to have joked that Oklahomans who pack up
lifornia raise both states' average IQ Since.re
snch scenarios, let's drill the Will Rogers plx-
ror it in \-our memory.
ample is an auto franchise. Let's say you takc
nrll branches in the same town with a total of
mben 7,2, and 3 in branch A, and numbers d
rh B. On average) salesman number 1 seils orr
esman number 2 sells two cars per week, and so
rFTan number 6, who shifts six cars each week-
:ulation, vou know that branch A sells fwo cars
hereas branch B is far ahead with an average of
srn,n per week. You decide to transfer salesman
rch A. What happens? Its average sales increase
person. And branch B? It now consists of onlr
umbers 5 and 6. Its average sales increase to 55
h srvitcheroo strategies dont change an),thing
r create an impressive illusion. For this reason,
stors, and board members should be on special
hear of rising averages in countries, compahieg
st centers, or product lines.

Rolf Dobelir

A particularly deceitful case of th e wiil Rogers phenomenon
is found in medicine. Tirmors are usually broken down into
four stages: The smallest and most treatable ones are classified
as stage one; the worst are rated stage four. Their progression
gives us the term "stage migration." The survival rate is highest
for stage one patients and lowest for stage four patients. Now,
every year new procedures are released onto the market and
allow for more accurate diagnosis. These new screening tech-
niques reveal minuscule tumors that no doctor had ever noticed
before. The result: Patients who were erroneously diagnosed
as healthy before are now counted as stage one patients. The
addition of relatively healthy people into the stage one group
increases the groupt average life expectancy. A great medical
success? Unfortunately not: merc stage rnigration.

175

