m*

If You Have an Enemy, Give Him Information
Information Bias

n his short stoty "Del rigor en la ciencia," which consists :f
just a single paragraph,Jorge Luis Borges describes a sl!i-
cial country. In this country, the science ofcartographr s

so sophisticated that only the most detailed of maps will do-
that is, a map with a scale of 1:1, as large as the country itse-:
their citizens soon realize that such a m p does not proriJe
any insight, since it merely duplicates what they already kno-o
Borges's map is the extreme case of the information bias,',:r
delusion that more information guarantees better decisions.
Searching for a hotel in Miami a little while ago, I dreu-=
a short list of five good offers. Right away, one jumped out r
me, but I wanted to make sure I had found the best deal a:c
decided to keep researching. I plowed my way through doze:.s
of customer reviews and blog posts and clicked through cou:.:-
less photos and videos. Two hours later, I could say for su::
which the best hotel was: the one I had liked at the start. T::
mountain of additional information did not lead to a better ir-
cision. On the contrary, if time is money, then I might as u'er-
have taken up residence at the Four Seasons.

Jonathan Baron from the University o1
:hysicians the following question: A pat
:oms that indicate with a probability of 8
.:ffering from disease A. If this is not the
=:ther disease X or Y. Each of these dise
:":rd each treatment results in similar sid,
:-rr, what treatment would you suggest) L
-:t for disease A and recommend the rel
::ppose there is a diagnostic test that flas
:isease X is present and "negative" when d.
!{or.vever, if the patient really does have di
;":lts will be positive in 50 percent of the c
:::e other 50 percent. Would you recomn
::;r? Most doctors said yes, even though i
-::elevant. Assuming that the test result i:
r:1ity of disease A is stil1 much greater th;
-..e additional information contributes nor
:r:ision.

Doctors are not the only professionals ,
l-::lus information. Managers and inr-e=r
- :red to it. How often are studies commis
i:rer, even though the critical facts are reaj
:-:al information not only wastes time a::.
:,-:1'ou at a disadvantage. Consider this c-
:,;-: more inhabitants, San Diego or San -\:
::-,:er of the Max Planck Institute in Gerr:::
'r: ':;dents in the University of Chicago ;.:
\1:rich. Sixty-two percent of Chicago s:::
:i: Diego has more. But, astonishinglr'. t-,
-=-;ent answered correctly. The reason: -\-

