n Enemy, Give Him Information
ias

:or, -D:i rigor en la ciencia," which consists oj
r:.:-z::;:rh. Jorge Luis Borges describes a spe-
l;: ::::. .ountry, the science of cartographr- L
:;: :,;:lv the most detailed of maps will do-
:: ;. 'i.le of 1:1, as large as the country itseir-"
r:- ::il:ze that such z map does not provide
i: :::t:elv duplicates what they aheady knon.
he t:t:reme case of the information bias, tht
e ::i-::nation guarantees better decisions.
; l,-"rlei in Miami a little while ago, I drew up
go:d olIers. Right away, one jumped out a:
:o nake sure I had found the best deal ani
:=earching. I plowed my way through dozens
r-; a:rd blog posts and clicked through counr-
:deos. Two hours later, I could say for sure
':el \i-as: the one I had liked at the start. The
ional information did not lead to a better de-
itran; if time is money, then I might as wbL
Jence at the Four Seasons.

Eolf Dobel]i

Jonathan Baron from the University of pennsylvania asked
physicians the following question: A patient presents symp_
:oms that indicate with a probability of g0 percent that he is
suffering from disease A. If this is not the case, the patient has
either disease X or y. Each of these diseases is etuaily bad,
end each treatment results in similar side effects. As a doc_
:or, what treatment would you suggest? Logically, you would
rpt for disease A and recommend the relevant therapy. Now
suppose there is a diagnostic test that flashes ,positivJ,when
iisease X is present and "negative" when disease y is detected.
However, if the patient really does have disease A, the test re_
=::lts will be positive in 50 percent of the cases and negative in
:re other .50 percent. Would you recommend conducting the
:estl Most doctors said yes, even though the results would be
:relevant. Assuming that the test result is positive, the prob_
rbility of disease A is still much greater than that of disease X.
The additional information contributes nothing of value to the
iecision.

Doctors are not the only professionals with a penchant for
.:rrplus information. Managers and investors are almost ad_
iicted to it. How often are studies commissioned one after the
:ther, even though the critical facts are readily avairable? Addi-
:ional information not only wastes time and money, it can also
flt you at a disadvantage. consider this question: which city
:as more inhabitants, San Diego or San Antonio? Gerd Giger_
=:rzer of the Max Planck Institute in Germany put this question
:r students in the University of Chicago and the University of
]Iunich. Sixty-two percent of Chicago students guessed right:
San Diego has more. But, astonishingly, every single German
':udent answered correctly. The reason: Al1 of them had heard

177

