Tlee Art af Thinki$g e learly

of San Diego but not necessarily of San Antonio, so they optod
for the more familiar city. For the Chicagoans, however, both
cities were household names. They had more information, and
it misled them.
Or consider the hundreds of thousands of economistsir
service of banks, think tanks, hedge funds, and governments-
and all the white papers they have published from 2005 to2 k'
The vast library of research rePorts and mathematical mod"k
The formidable reams of comments. The polished PowerPoir
presentations. The terabytes of information on Bloomberg and
Reuters news services. The bacchanal dance to worship the god
of information. It was all hot air. The financial crisis touchot
down and upended global markets, rendering the coundesr
forecasts and comments worthless.
F'orget trying to amass all the data. Do your best to gtt
by with the bare facts. It will help you make better decisiom'
Superfluous knowledge is worthless, whether you know it r
not. The historian Daniel J. Boorstin put it right: "The gt*
est obstacle to discovery is not ignofance-it is the illusion of
knowledge." And next time you are confronted by a rival, cm-
sider killing him-not with kindness but with reams of dall
and analysis.

t78

60

Hurts So Good
Effort Justification

ohn, a soldier in the U.S. Army, has.
paratrooper course. He waits patienth
the coveted parachute pin. At last, h

stands in front of him, lines the pin up aga
pounds it in so hard that it pierces John's flt
,:rrens his top shirt button at every opportuni
**,a11 scar. Decades later, he has thrown alrz
Lnilia from his time in the army, except for d
hangs in a specially made frame on his lirin1
]lark single-handedly restored a rusn'
Every weekend and holiday went into gefti
ming; all the while his marriage was approa
h rn-as a struggle, but finally Mark's prized po
mrdr and gleamed in the sunshine. Two l,ear
perately needs money. He sells all his possess
&u. even his house-but not the bike. Er-er
qders double the actual value, Mark does no
-lohn and Mark are victims of efort justiJ,
flm a iot of energy into a task, you tend to or

