king Clearly

I io endure physical pain for the parachute prq
is other aryards. And since Mark's Harley cost
urs-and also nearly his wife-he prizes the
et he rvil1 never sell it.
tionis a special case of "cognitive dissonance-'
unched in your chest for a simple merit badp
b6urd. John's brain compensates for this im-
zluing the pin, hyping it up from something
ething semisacred. A1l of this happens uncorts
6cult to prevent.
frrt -iustfication to bind members to them-fr
r initiation rites. Gangs and fraternities initiate
frtdng tiem to withstand nauseating or vicious
rores that the harder the "entrance exam" is to
the subsequent pride and the value they attach
hip. }IBA schools playwith efiort justfication n
* their students day and night without respre,
of exhaustion. Regardless of whether the course
rl later on, once the students have the MBAs in
e-m the qualification essential for their careers
rlemanded so much ofthem.
of {ort justfication is the so-called IKEA ef-
ret rve assemble ourselves seems more valuable
ire designer piece. The same goes for hand-
r throw away a handcrafted pair, even if thev
dated, is hard to do. Managers who put weeks
o a strategy proposal will be incapable of ap-
rh'elr.. Designers, copFwriters, product devel-
er professionals who brood over their creatibns
tr of this.

Rerlf 3)oi:*11i

In the '50s, instant cake mixes were introduced to.the mar-
ket. A surefire hit, thought the manufacturers. Far from it:
Housewives took an instant disliking to them-because they
made things too easy. The firms reacted and made the prepa-
ration slightly more difficult (beating in an egg yourself). The
added effort raised the ladies' sense of achievement and, with
it, their appreciation for convenience food.
Now that you know about ffirt justfrcation, you can rate
your projects more objectively. Tiy it out: Whenever you have
invested a lot of time and effort into something, stand back and
examine the result- only the result. The novel you've been tin-
kering with for five years and that no publisher wants: Perhaps
it's not Nobel-worthy after all. The MBA you felt compelled
to do: Would you really recommend it? And the woman you've
been chasing for years: Is she really better than bachelorette
number two who would say yes right away?

181

