.ing Clearly

not necessariiy of San Antonio, so they opted
iliar cin,. For the Chicagoans, however, both
rold names. They had more information, and

rc hundreds of thousands of economists-in
ftink tanks, hedge funds, and governments-
,ape rs they have published from 2005 to 2007:
f research reports and mathematical models-
:ems of comments. The polished PowerPoint
e terabytes of information on Bloomberg and
rices. The bacchanal dance to worship the god
t rvas all hot air. The financial crisis touched
H global markets, rendering the countless
rments worthless.
to amass all the data. Do your best to get
facts. It will help you make better decisions.
rledge is worthless, whether you know it or
n Daniel J. Boorstin put it right: "The great-
sco\-enr is not ignofance-it is the illusion of
I next time you are confronted by a rival, con-
]-not with kindness but with reams of data

6*

Hurts So Good
Effort Justification

ohn, a soldier in the U.S. Army, has just completed his
paratrooper course. He waits patiently in line to receive
the coveted parachute pin. At last, his superior officer

stands in front of him, lines the pin up against his chest, and
pounds it in so hard that it pierces Johnt flesh. Ever since, he
opens his top shirt button at every opportunity to showcase the
'mal1 scar. Decades later, he has thrown away allthe memora-
cilia from his time in the army, except for the tiny pin, which
llangs in a specially made frame on his living-room wall.
Mark single-handedly restored a rusty Harleyp2yidson.
Every weekend and holiday went into getting it up and run-
eing; all the while his marriage \^ras approaching breakdown.
It was a struggle, but finally Mark's prized possession was road-
:eady and gleamed in the sunshine. Two years later, Mark des-
:erately needs money. He sells a1l his possessions-the TV, the
rar, even his house-but not the bike. Even when a prospect
rfr-ers double the actual value, Mark does not sell it.
John and Mark are victims of ffirtjustfficatian.Whenyou
:ut a lot ofenergy into a task, you tend to overvalue the result.

