?h.* Art *f Yhinkin6 C}.*arl3,

BecauseJohn had to endure physical pain for the parachute l-:
it outshines al1his other awards. And since Mark's Harler' . ,
him so many hours-and also nearly his wife-he prizes ::.,
bike so highly that he will never sell it.
Efort justifcation rs a special case of "cognitive dissonan::
To have a hole punched in your chest for a simple merit ba;.,
borders on the absurd. John's brain compensates for this r::
balance by overvaluing the pin, hyping it up from someth:: -
mundane to something semisacred. A11of this happens unc :.'
sciously and is difficult to prevent.
Groups use efort justfication to bind members to them-- '
example, through initiation rites. Gangs and fraternities ini::: '
new members by forcing them to withstand nauseating or vic: - -
tests. Research proves that the harder the "entrance exam" i! :
pass, the grerter the subsequent pride and the value they atl,.
to their membership. MBA schools playwith ffirtjustficatb':
this way: They work their students day and night without resF: :
often to the point of exhaustion. Regardless of whether the co..:,,
work proves useful later on, once the students have the MB-{. :
the bag, they'll deem the qualification essential for their car..:
simplybecause it demanded so much of them.
A mild form of ffirt justifcation is the so-called IKE-\ .,'
fect. Furniture that we assemble ourselves seems more valu::.,'
than any expensive designer piece. The same goes for ha:.-'
knitted socks. To throw away a handcrafted pair, even if t-.
are tatty and outdated, is hard to do. Managers who put u'e ...
of hard work into a strategy proposal will be incapable of ,:'
praising it objectively. Designers, coplwriters, product de','.-'
opers, or aly other professionals who brood over their creati -
are similarly guilty of this.

180

In the'50s, instant cake mixes were int:
,.:t. A surefire hit, thought the manufac:
lousewives took an instant disliking to :
-ade things too easy. The firms reacteci ..:
:,tion slightly more difficult (beating in ":,
:ded effort raised the ladies' sense of ac:--
, their appreciation for convenience food.
Now that you know abottt ffirt jusr: .
ur projects more objectively. Try it oui: '.
:-'.-ested a lot of time and effort into some:
. .:mine the result-only the result. The i
::ing with for five years and that no pn: ,
- , not Nobel-worthy after all. The lIB..
" jo: Would you real1y recommend iti -\:
.:n chasing for years: Is she really be:,,
,::rber two who would say yes right au',:- '

