fngs Loom Large
:,- -\umbers

: ::-- .orporate board of a retail compan-.'
- :: -sand stores. Half of the stores are i:-
--- -::-: half in rural areas. At the behest c:
--..:.: :onducted a study on shoplifting ar'rJ r.
---- ..:jrrqs. Projected onto the wall in fron:
- ::.. -:e hundred branches with the highes:
,r-r. r-i sales. In bold letters above them is h:.
---.: :: "The branches with the highest thet:
-: : -.:.:.1 areas." After a moment of silence anj
-i :. ::rst to speak: "Ladies and gentlemen.
:-:,--:. From now on, we will install additiona-
.-- :-rral branches. Let's see those hillbillie.
:-. D r u'e all agree?"
: :-:letely. You ask the consultant to call u:
:-::;s u-ith the lowest theft rates. After som=
= -:.i appears. Surprise, surprise: The shop.
'-:t of shoplifting in relation to sales are alsc
a-; location isn't the deciding factor," you be-
:'.',':rat smugly as you gaze around the table a:

11*:f I]{}h*:ili

i-our colleagues. "what counts is the size of the store. In the
:ountryside, the branches tend to be small, meaning a single
:ncident has a much larger influence on the theft rate. There_
rcre, the rural branches' rates vary greatly-much more than
:he larger city branches. Ladies and gentlemen, I introduce you
:o the lara of small numbers.It has just caught you out.,,
the law of small numbers is not something we understand
:r-rtuitively. Thus people-especially journalists, managers, and
:oard members-continually fall for it. Let,s examine an ex_
:reme example. Instead of the theft rate, consider the average
'veight of employees in a branch. Instead of a thousand stores,
'.re'11 take just two: a mega-branch and a mini-branch. The big
.tore has one thousand empioyees; the small store just two. The
r\rerage weight in the large branch corresponds roughly to the
.rverage weight of the population, say 170 pounds. Regardless
rf who is hired or fired, it will not change much. Unlike the
)mal1 store: The store manager's colleague, if rotund or reedy,
r.ill affect the average weight tremendously.
Let's go back to the shoplifting problem. We now under-
stand why the smaller a branch is, the more its theft rate will
". ary-from extremely high to extremely low. No matter how
:he consultant arranges his spreadsheet, if you list alr the theft
:ates in order of size, small stores will appear at the bottom,
-arge stores will take up the middle, and the top slots? Small
.tores again. So, the CEO'' conclusion was useless, but at least
re doesn't need to go overboard on a security system for the
.mal1 stores.

Suppose you read the following story in the newspaper:
''Start-ups employ smarter people. A study commissioned by
the National Institute of f]nnecessary Research has calculated

183

