?he Art *f 1*ieinking CIear!.y

tions are fueled in the run-up to an announcement, any dis:,:
ity gives rise to draconian punishment, regardless of how p;-::
the gap is.
Many companies bend over backward to meet anai',.:
predictions. To escape this terror, some began publishing::. '
own estimates, so-called earnings guidance. Not a smart n: -', :
Now, the market heeds only these internal forecasts-"r :
studies them much more closely to boot. CFOs are force: :
achieve these targets to the cent, and so must draw on a1l : ,
accounting artifices available.
F<rrtunately, expectations can also lead to commendabl. .- -
centives. In 1965, the American psychologist Robert Ro..--
thal conducted a noteworthy experiment in various schr , .'
Teachers were told of a (fake) new test that could identifr .. - -
dents who were on the verge of an intellectual spurt-so-c:--. :
bloomers. Twenty percent of students were randomly sele: -.:
and classified as such. Teachers remained under the imp:.--
sion that these were indeed high-potential students. Aft=: -
year, Rosenthal discovered that these students had develc: -:
much higher IQ than other children in a control group. -.
effect became known as the "Rosenthal effect" (or "Pygma-:
effect").
Unlike the CEOs and CFOs who consciously tailor i:. '
performance to meet expectations, the teachers' actions r','.:,
subconscious. Unknowingly, they probably devoted more :::- :
to the bloomers and, consequently, the group learned more. l- ,
prospect of brilliant students influenced the teachers so rr- - - '
that they ascribed not just better grades but also improved :. : -
sonality traits to the "gifted" students.
But how do we react to personal expectations? This br:::"

186

-, :o the "placebo effect"-pills and therapi
' :mprove health, but do so anyway. The "
:.n registered in one-third ofa1l patients. I
' : rvell understood. A1l we know is that e-r
- ;hemistry of the brain and thus the u'i
.-r'Alzheimer's patients cannot benefit ii
:- impairs the area of the brain that dea1.
Erpectations are intangible, but their .
, - -r' have the power to change reaiin'. C
':::-ri Is it possible to live a life free fror:
:::nately not. But you can deal with th.:
: -:.e expectations for yourself and for the :.
-:3ases motivation. At the same time, 1o-,','
" :fs you cannot control-for example. t::,
-:..Coxical as it sounds: The best wav to ::
-i:-,-surprises is to anticipate them.

/

