,--..: C iearly
::i run-up to an announcement, any dispar-
i.-r1ian punishment, regardless of how paltn'

-:rs 'rend over backward to meet analysts'
:.:e this terror, some began publishing their
-:.,-ed earnings guidance. Not a smart move'
: ::eeds only these internal forecasts-ani
-:- :rore closely to boot. CFOs are forced tc
:::: !o the cent, and so must draw on all the
.. ,'''ailable.
i.:..:etions can also lead to commendable in-
. :::e -{merican psychologist Robert Rosen-
. :::eu-orthy experiment in various schools'
.: --i a (fake) new test that could identify stu-
: ::re verge of an intellectual spurt-so-ca1lei
-.' :-:.ent of students were randomly selectei
.:::. Teachers remained under the impres-
..'.:= indeed high-potential students' After a
ji.;,-r'ered that these students had developec
: ::-ra other children in a control group' Thi'
.:-,1':- .rs the "Rosenthal effect" (or "Pygmalio:

'FO. and CFOs who consciously tailor their
:--.:: e\pectations, the teachers' actions were
:,i: rt ingly, they probably devoted more time
::.i. :onsequently' the group learned more' The
:,:: students influenced the teachers so mucl:
: :: r: iust better grades but also improved per-
::= "gifted" students.
'.r.'. :eact to personal expectations? This bring'

&,o1f 1)*belli

us to the "placebo .*.,"-pills and therapies that are unlikely
to improve health, but do so an),way. The 'placebo effect" has
been registered in one-third of all patients. But how it works is
not well understood. A1l we know is that expectations alter the
biochemistry of the brain and thus the whole body. Accord-
ingly Alzheimer's patients cannot benefit from it: Their condi-
tion impairs the area of the brain that deals with expectations.
Expectations are intangible, but their effect is quite real.
They have the power to change reality. Can we deprogram
:hem? Is it possible to live a life free from expectations? Un-
rcrtunately not. But you can deal with them more cautiously.
Raise expectations for yourself and for the people you love. This
rncreases motivation. At the same time, lower expectations for
:hings you cannot control-for example, the stock market. As
:aradoxical as it sounds: The best way to shield yourself from
rasty surprises is to anticipate them.

I

