Ahead!

y guestions. Grab a pen quickly and jot down
;wers in the margin. F irst question: In a de-
t store, a Ping-Pong paddle and a plastic ball
: paddle costs $1 more, how much is the ball?
:In a textile factory, five machines take exacdy
rrke fir'e shirts. How many minutes will it take
rhines to produce one hundred shirts? And,
n: A pond has water lilies growing in it. The
$uckly, each day doubling the area they take
rq'{ight days for the pond to be complete}y
61lilis5, how many days will it take for it to
Dont read on until you have written down the

bese questions, there is an intuitive answer-
The quick, intuitive answers come to mind
re hundred minutes, and twenty-four da1rs.
urong. The solutions are: five cents, five min-
rrren days. How many did you urr.*", dor-

Rslf Ilobelli

fhousands of people have taken this Cognitive Reflection
Test (CRT), which professor Shane Frederick developed. So
far, students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT) in Boston have fared best. On average, they got 2.L8
correct answers. Students at Princeton University came in sec-
ond with an average of 1.63. Far below were students of the
University of Michigan who scored an average of 0.83. How-
eveE despite these neat rankings, averages are not interesting
in this case. More interesting is how those who scored highly
differ from the rest.
Here's a hint: Would you prefer a bird in the hand or two
in the bush? Frederick discovered that people with low CRT
results tend to prefer a bird in the hand. They play it safe. After
all, something is better than nothing. Those who score at least
2 or higher usually opt for the riskier option. They prefer the
gamble. This is especially true for men.
One factor that separates the groups is their ability to con-
trol their impulses. In chapter 51 on hyperbolic discounting, we
covered the seductive power of "now" Frederick put the fol-
lowing question to the participants: "Would you rather have
$3,400 now or $3,800 in a month?" In general, people with
low CRT scores favor getting the smaller amount sooner. For
them, waiting poses a challenge because they are more im-
pulsive. This also applies to purchasing decisions. In contrast,
people with high CRT results usually decide to wait the extra
few weeks. They muster the willpower to turn down instant
gratification-and are rewarded for it later on.
Thinking is more exhausting than sensing: Rational con-
sideration requires more willpower than simply giving in to
intuition. In other words, intuitive people tend to scrutinize

189

