rk Is for the Birds
illv

ctographer, is on the go from Monday to Fri-
missioned by fashion magazines, he divides his
reen ]Iilan, Paris, and New York and is con-
. ot the most beautiful girls, the most original
pertect light. He is well known on the social
rrone\-is great: $500 an hour, easy. "That's as
nercial La\wer," he brags to his buddies, "and
&ont of my lens looks a lot better than anr"

. enviable life, but lately he has become more
: ti-ls as if something has come between him
rorld. The selfishness of the industry suddenlv
etimes he lies in bed, staring at the ceiling, and
meaningful work. He would like to be selfless
ontribute something to the world, no matter

phone rings. It's Patrick, his former classmate
iident of the local bird club: "Next Satufdar
r annual birdhouse drive. Wete looking for

&,otrf D*beX1i

volunteers to help us build birdhouses for endangered species.
Afterward we'llput them up in the woods. Do you have time?
We're meeting at eight otlock in the morning. We should be
done shortly after noon."
What should Jack say if he real1y is serious about creating
a better world? That's right, he should turn down the request.
Why? Jack earns $500 an hour. A carpenter, $50. It would be
much more sensible to work an extra hour as a photographer
and then hire a professional carpenter for six hours to make
good-quality birdhouses (which Jack could never hope to ac-
complish). Taxes aside, he could donate the dift-erence ($200)
to the bird club. Doing so, his contribution would go much
further than if he grabbed a saw and rolled up his sleeves.
Nevertheless, it is highly likely that Jack will turn up bright
and early next Saturday to build birdhouses. Economists call
this volunteers folly.It is a popular phenomenon: More than
one-fourth of Americans volunteer their time. But what makes
it folly? Among other things, ifJack chooses to cobble together
a few birdhouses himself, it takes awaywork from a tradesman.
Working a little longer and donating a portion of the earnings
is the most effective contribution Jack can make. Hands-on
volunteer work would be helpful only if he could make use of
his expertise. If the bird club were planning a fund-raising mail
campaign and needed a professional photo, Jack could either
shoot it himself or work an hour longer to hire another top
photographer and donate the remainder.
So now we come to the thorny topic of altruism. Does self:
Iessness exist at all or is it merely a balm to our egos? Although
a desire to help the community motivates many volunteers,
personal benefits play a big part, such as gaining skills, experi-

195

