-ises this methoci to make decisi,-:'
.rr irnagination to list all the poss,.
r:e d bv rvhat springs to mind; u.e ..
;r.rr-e seen in our modest experier,-
:l of the century if you're only th::-
.:::'rq smal1 probabilities is impos.r--

::,,r,.rqh datir on rare events. The sm,,-

ilrt;r points we have and the hic

.': ;.,robability-a vicious effect. Th,

: .r,rch calculations. Th.y require tr
:-:r.red state. In our evolutionary I

-. .ind hard vanished inside a preda: :
'.r-.ilts of quick decision makers, ani
- -r.lled heuristics.
:-,-.:.r is the ffict beuristic. An affect:,
- nething you like or dislike. The t'.
,.:ir-e elTect. The vrord "luxury" prodl:..
.r-r-ri1tic, one-dimensional impulse i:.:
.-:rq risks and benefits to be independ.:
-r thev are. Instead, the affect heui':
,l the same sensory thread.
::ions to issues such as nuctrear po\\'::
'! .rte schools, or motorbikes determ::
.ks and benefits. If you like somethi: -

: :';.ks are smaller and the benefits grea::
:: If r.ou don't like something, the oppo.-
::-.lits appear to be dependent. Of Cour::
r:.
. - -ive: Suppose you own a Harley-David.
.. .:ud1, that states that driving one is risk ,

.tr:;lI I),rl.reitr-

than previously thoughr, you will subconsciously tweak how
'ou rate the benefits, deeming the experience ,,an even greater
sense of freedolrr."

But how does an affect-the initial, spontaneous emotion-
iome to be? Researchers at the university of Michigan flashed
rne of three images for less than one hundredth of a second in
-r-ont of participants: a smiling face, an angry face, or a neutral
igure. The subjects then had to indicate whether they liked a
:andomly selected Chinese character or not (the participants
jidn't speak Chinese). Most preferred symbols that immedi-
-,tely followed the smiling face. seemingly insignificant factors
nfluence our ernotions. Here is another example where an in-
,rgnificant factor plays a role. Researchers David Hirschleifer
. r-rd ry4er shumway tested the relationship between the amount
f morning sun and daily market performance in twenty-six
.rajor stock exchanges between 1982 and 1997. They found a
- rrrelation that reads much like a farmer,s adage: If the sun
- shining in the morning, the stock market will rise during
re day. Not always, but often. Who would have thought that
' rnshine can move billions. The morning sun obviously has the
,rre efi-ect as a smiley face.
Whether we like it or not, we are puppets of our emotions.
i, e make complex decisions by consulting our feelings, not our
roughts. Against our best intentions, we substitute the ques_
rn, "What do I think about this?,,with ,,How do I feel about
".is?" So, smile! Your future depends on it.

199

