Ti:e Arl *i Thi*!-ing CLe*rly

Truth be told, no one uses this method to make decisi :
First of all, we lack enough imagination to list all the pos):
pros and cons. We are limited by what springs to mind; ll'e : -
only conjure up what we have seen in our modest experie : -,
It is hard to imagine a storm of the century if you're only t:: :-
years old" Second, calculating small probabilities is impo..--
because we do not have enough data on rare events. The sn:' ,
the probability, the fewer data points we have and the hr- '
the error rate on the exact probability-a vicious effect. T: - -
our brain is not built for such calculations. They require :
and eft-ort-not our preferred state. In our evolutionarl --
whoever thought too long and hard vanished inside a pred.-
jaws. We are the descendants of quick decision makers, ar:
rely on mental shortcuts called heuristics.
One of the most popular is the afect heuristic. An affec:
momentary judgment: something you like or dislike. The '"
"gunfire" triggers a negative effect. The word "luxury" pro; "
a positive one. This automatic, one-dimensional impulse :-'
vents you from considering risks and benefits to be indepe: --, '
variables, which indeed they are. Instead, the afect h;:'
puts risks and benefits on the same sensory thread.
Your emotional reactions to issues such as nuclear p',' ,
organic vegetables, private schools, or motorbikes dete::-' -
how you assess their risks and benefits. If you like somet: -
you believe that the risks are smaller and the benefits -e:.'",
than they actually are. Ifyou don't like something, the opr -
is true. Risks and benefits appear to be dependent. Of cc*:
in reality, they are not. r
Even more impressive: Suppose you own a Harley-Davi;,
If you come across a study that states that driving one is r:,'- '

198

-=an previously thought, you will subconsi
.r rate the benefits, deeming the experien;
:lse of freedom."
But how does an affect-the initial, spo:-.:
:r-re to be? Researchers at the Universitr" ,,''
'-: of three images for less than one hund:-
.rt of participants: a smiling face, an an;:
--rre. The subjects then had to indicate r.,-
domly selected Chinese character or r
--:-r't speak Chinese). Most preferred sr-::,:
, r-followed the smiling face. Seeminqh :
=-rence our emotions. Here is another e:....:
- --ificant factor plays a ro1e. Researchers .
. T\,ler Shumway tested rhe relationship - .
' rorning sun and daily market perfor::-...
rr stock exchanges between 1982 anc _.
::lation that reads much like a fan-r-ie:,
.rining in the morning, the stock n::.,.
: :ay. Not always, but often. Who u'o.-:
,line can move bi1lions. The morning .,-:-
: effect as a smiley face.
.1-hether we like it or not, we are puF:: :
':rake complex decisions by consultin; _
.hts. Against our best intentioos, \1': : .'
. What do I think about this?" ri-ith -.
" So, smile! Your future depends on ::

