n Heretic
a lllusion

s in the vitamin business. His father founded
Dmpail- when supplements were not yet r
{e product; a doctor had to prescribe them-
rook over the operation in the early'90s, de-
eted. Bruce seized the opportunity with botr
k out huge loans to expand production. Todey.
le most successful people in the business and
national as sociation of vitamin manufactures-
od, hardly a day has passed without him swal-
r three multivitamins. A journalist once asked
, am'thing. He replied: "I'm sure of it." Do 1'ou

her question for you: Take any idea you are 10O
f; Perhaps that gold will rise over the next fiic
; that God exists. Perhaps that your dentist ir
rcu. Whatever the belief write it down in onc
ou believe yourself.)
rnsider your conviction more valid than Biuceh
w*l': Yours is an internal observation, whereer

IloIf Do]:e}1i

Bruce's is external. Crudely put, you can peek into your own
soul, but not into his.
In Bruce's case, you might think: ,,Come on, it,s obviouslyin
his interest to believe that vitamins are beneficial. After all, his
wealth and social status depend on the success of the company.
He has to maintain afamirytrzdition. Ali his life he has gulped
down pills, so he'll never admit that it was a waste of time.,,
For you, however, it's a different story: \bu have searched deep
inside. You are completely impartial.
But how pure and honest is internal reflection? The Swedish
psychologist PetterJohannson allowed test subjects to glimpse
rwo portrait photos of random people and choose which face
\vas more attractive. Then he showed them the preferred
photo up close and asked them to describe the most attrac-
tive features. However, with a sleight of hand, he switched the
pictures. Most participants faiied to notice and proceeded to
iustify, in detail, why they favored the image. The results of the
study: Introspection is not reliable. When we soul-search, we
contrive the findings.
The beliefthat reflection leads to truth or accuracy is carled
-J.e introspection illusion This is more than sophistry. Because
rl-e are so confident of our beliefs, we experience three reactions
rr-hen someone fails to share our views. Response 1: Assump-
5on ofignorance. The other party clearly lacks the necessary in-
:brmation. If he knewwhat you know, he would be of the same
:pinion. Political activists think this way: They believe they can
q-in others over through enlightenment. Reaction 2: Assump-
ion of idiocy. The other person has the necessary information,
:ut his mind is underdeveloped. He cannot draw the obvious
:onclusions. In other words, he's a moron. This reaction is par-

207

