?l:e Art of Thi$king Clearly

ticularly popular with bureaucrats who want to protect "stupid-
consumers from themselves. Response 3: Assumption of me}
ice. Your counterpart has the necessary information-he elto
understands the debate-but he is deliberately confrontationrl-
He has evil intentions. This is how many religious leaders aod
followers treat disbelievers: If they dont agree, they must he
servants ofthe devil!
In conclusion: Nothing is more convincing than your otnm
beliefs. We believe that introspection unearths genuine sdF
knowledge. Unfortunately, introspection is, in large part, feb
rication posing two dangers: First, the introspection illusion c:c-
ates inaccurate predictions of future mental states. Trust rw
internal observations too much and too long, and you might be
in for a very rude awakening. Second, we believe that our in:'
trospections are more reliable than those of others, which crc-
ates an illusion of superiority. Remedy: Be all the more criticeil
with yourself. Regard your internal observations with the sam
skepticism as claims from some random Person. Become r-m
own toughest critic.

202

68

WhyYou Should Set Fire to Your Sh
Inability to Close Doors

ext to my bed, two dozen books a
have dipped in and out of all of th,
to part with even one. I knorv thar

tont help me achieve any realinsights, despi
I put in, and that I should really devote mvse,
:me. So why am I still juggling all fwenn'-tr
1 know a man who is dating three ryom
.r-irh all three and can imagine starting a t?
5em. However, he simply doesnt have the hr
:ne because then he would be passing up on
iood. If he refrains from deciding, all optir
lhe downside is that no real relationship u'ill
In the third century BC, General Xiang
tuToss the Yangtze River to take on the Qln d
:oops slept, he ordered a1l the ships to be "e
:e1'he told them: "You now have a choice: f
rkr or you die." By removing the option of re
reir focus to the only thing that mattered: tl
;rinquistador Cortds used the same motivar

