inking Clearly

rrwith bureaucrats who want to protect "stupid'
n themselves. Response 3: Assumption of ma}
tsrpeft has the necessary information-he er-ea
e debate-but he is deliberately confrontationd
tntions. This is how many religious leaders ani
fisbelier.ers: If they don't agree, they must bc
derill
on: \othing is more convincing than your on-r,
Iiel-e that introspection unearths genuine seli
rtbmrnately, introspection is, in large part, faF
;nr-o dangers: First, the introspection illusion cre'
: predictions of future mental states. tust vour
ztions too much and too long, and you might be
de as'akening. Second, we believe that our i-n-
r more reliable than those of others, which cre-
r of superiority. Remedy: Be all the more critice.l
Reg'ard vour internal observations with the sarrr
:laims from some random person. Become vour
iritic.

6&

WhyYou Should Set Fire to your Ships

Inability to Close Doors

ext to my bed, two dozen books are stacked high. I
have dipped in and out of all of them but am unable
to part with even one. I know that sporadic reading

.,vont help me achieve any real insights, despite the many hours
I put in, and that I should really devote myself to one book at a
:ime. So why am I still juggling all twenty-four?
I know a man who is dating three women. He is in love
",r-ith all three and can imagine starting a family with any of
:hem. However, he simply doesnt have the heart to choose just
rne because then he would be passing up on the other two for
.ood. If he refrains from deciding, all options remain open.
The downside is that no real relationship will develop.
In the third century BC, General Xiang Yu sent his army
icross the Yangtze River to take on the Qln dynasty. While his
:roops slept, he ordered all the ships to be set alight. The next
jav he told them: "You now have a choice: Either you fight to
',r-in or you die." By removing the option of retreat, he switched
--:eir focus to the only thing that mattered: the battle. Spanish
:onquistador Cort6s used the same motivational trick in the

