sixteenth century. After landing on the east coast of Meri;
he sank his own ship.
Xiang Yu and Cort6s are exceptions. We mere mortals :
everything we can to keep open the maximum number of c: -
tions. Psychology professors Dan Ariely and Jiwoong S: :
demonstrated the strength of this instinct using a compu:::
game. Players started with one hundred points, and on :.,
screen in front of them, three doors appeared-a red one, a b- -.,
one, and a green one. Opening a door cost a point, but for er-.:-
room they entered, they could accrue more points. The p1at.:
reacted logically: They found the most fruitful room and hc-: -
up there for the whole session. Ariely and Shin then chan:. -
the rules. If doors were not opened within twelve moves, t:-:
started shrinking on the screen and eventually vanished. P,,' '
ers now rushed from door to door to secure access to all :
tential treasure troves. A11this unproductive scrambling me :: "
they scored 15 percent fewer points than in the previous ga::" -
The organizers then added another twist: Opening doors r- -
cost three points. The same anxiety kicked in: Players fritte :. -
away their points trying to keep all doors open. Even when : ,
subjects learned how many points were hidden in each ro. :.
nothing changed. Sacrificing options was a price they were :-.
willing to pay.
Why do we act so irrationally? Because the downsid.
such behavior is not alrvays apparent. In the financial mark.:,
things are clear: A financial option on a security always cc,
something. There is no such thing as a free option. In r. ,'
other realms, however, options seem to be free. But this i. -
illusion. They also come at a price, but the price tag is oi:.-
hidden and intangible: Each decision costs mental energr' :-: ,

204

:'.rts up precious time for thinking and 1ir':-
,.rnine every possible expansion option otte:-
:rd, Companies that aim to address allc,.is:.
-''. addressing no one. Salespeople who ch-..
- ose no deals.
We are obsessed with having as manr -:
-re fire, ruling nothing out, and beinq :
.{owever, this can easily destroy succes:.
. rse doors. A business strategy is prin-..:.
' .\at nat to engage in. Adopt a life stra:;:
'-rate strategy: Write down what nat t-. -_
..' other words, make calculated decisior. .
ssibilities and when an option sholr.s u:.
:-to-pursue list. It will not only keep .
..,r save you lots of thinking time. Thin-
..: consult your list instead of havins rr :-
r-.enever a new door cracks open. llos: ;
::ring, even when the handle seems to :.--:

