.ing CIearlY
u than those who had not viewed it' Appar-
. did rvork after all!
were bafled, especially since they knew that
suasiveness decreased over time' It has a half-
:til'e substance. Surely you have experienced
r's sav you read an article on the benefits of
rmediately after reading it you are a zealo':l'
'a few weeks, you don't really remember whl-'
s until finally only a tiny fraction of enthusi-

rst the opposite is true for propaganda' If it
.i*r someone, this influence will only increase
Psr-chologist Carl Hovland, who ied the studt-
prtrnent, named this phenomenon the sleepn
e best explanation is that, in our memories, the
rment fades faster than the argument' In other
n quickly forgets where the information came
the Department of Propaganda)' Meanwhile'
It (i.e., war is necessary and noble) fades onh"
:ndures. Therefore, any knowledge that stems
worthv source gains credibility over time' The
r melts away faster than the message does'
d States, elections increasingiy revolve around
n€nts, in which candidates seek to tarnish one
I or reputation. However, by 1aw, each politi-
close its sponsor at the end so that it is cleartv
es an electioneering message' However, count-
m that the sleeper ffict does its job here, too'
rg undecided'oot..r. The messenger fades lrom
$v accusations Persevere.

ft,alf 1)obelli

I've often wondered why advertising works at all. Any logi-
cal person must recognize ads for what they are, and suitably
categorize and disqualify them. But even you as a discerning
and intelligent reader wont always succeed at this. Itt quite
possible that, after a few weeks, you won't remember if you
picked up certain information from a well-researched article or
from a tacky advertorial.
How can you thwart the sleeper efect? Ftst, don't accept any
unsolicited advice, even if it seems well meant. Doing so, you
protect yourself to a certain degree from manipulation. Second,
avoid ad-contaminated sources like the plague. How fortunate
we are that books are (sti11) ad-free! Third, try to remember the
source of every argument you encounter. Whose opinions are
these? And why do they think that way? Probe the issue like an
investigator would: Cui bono? Who bene6ts? Admittedlll this
is a 1ot of work and will slow down your decision making. But
it will also refine it.

2tL

