7L

Why It's Never Just a Two-Horse Race
Alternative Blindness

ou leaf through a brochure that gushes about .r'o
benefits of the university's MBA degree. Your serr
sweeps over photos of the ivy-covered campus and m

ultramodern sports facilities. Sprinkled throughout are imeesl
of smiling students from various ethnic backgrounds with m
emphasis on young women, young Chinese, and young In,{'qrm
go-getters. On the last page you come to an overview thar #
lustrates the financial value of an MBA. The $100,000 tee n
easily offset by the statistical extra income that graduates er:m,
before they retire: $400,000-after taxes. Who wouldn't rrsrm
to be up $300,000? It's a no-brainer.
Wrong. Such an argument hides not one but four t-ailir
cies. First, we have the suimmer's body illusion: MBA progrem
attract career-oriented people who will probably earn aboroc-
average salaries at some stage of their careers, even without fu
extra qualification of an MBA. The second fallacy: An lfBll
takes two years. During this time you can exPect a loss d'
earnings-say, $100,000. So in dct the MBA costs $200,00&'
not $100,000. That amount, if invested well, could easilr- *

ceed the additional income that the brochu
to estimate earnings that are more than tl
idiotic. Who knows what will happen over
cades? Finally other alternatives exist. you
tlyeen "do an MBlf' and,,don,t do an MB,l
rnd a different program that costs signific
represents a shot in the arm for your career
conception interests me the most. Lett call i
vss:We systematically forget to compare an
:he next-best alternative.
Heret an example from the world of fin,
:lave a little money in your savings accounr.
investment broker for advice. He proposes a t
',ou 5 percent interest. "That's much better r
'.'ou get with your savings account,,, he poinrs
.ense to buy the bond? We don,t know. It's .
:ust these two options. To assess your opri
,,r'ould have to compare the bond with all oth
:ons and then select the best. This is horv to1
3uffett does things: "Each deal we measure ar
rest deal that is available at any given time-
joing more of what we are akeady doing."
Unlike Warren Buffett, politicians often r,
-.ttive blindness. Let's say your city is planninr
.-rena on a vacant plot of land. Supporters a:
rena would benefit the population much rnc
-rt-both emotionally and financially. But rl
-,r,-rong. They should compare the construcri
i:ena with all other ideas that become imp,,
:,rnstruction-for example, building a scho

