?h* Ari *f Thinking Cleartry

arts center, a hospital, or an incinerator. They could also sell
the land and invest the proceeds or reduce the city,s debt.
And you? Do you often overlook the alternatives? Let,s sar-
your doctor discovers a tumor that will kill you in five years. He
proposes a complicated operation that, if successful, remove.
the tumor completely. However, this procedure is highly risin-.
with a survival rate of just 50 percent. How do you decidei
You weigh up your choices: Certain death in five years or a 5[
percent chance of dying next week. Alternative blindness! per-
haps there is a variant of the invasive surgery that your hospi_
tal doesn't offer but a hospital across town does. This invasir=
surgery might not remove the tumor altogether, just slow ir*
growth, but is much safer and gives you an extra ten years. Aric
who knows, maybe during these ten years a more sophisticatej
therapy for eradicating tumors will be made available.
The bottom line: If you have trouble making a decisio-
remember that the choices are broader than ,,no surgery" L1r
"highly risky surgery." Forget about the rock and the hrj
place, and open your eyes to the other, superior alternatives.

2t4

r?fa
(&

Why We Take Aim at young Guns

Social Comparison Bias

s one of my books reached number
seller list, my publisher asked me ri

uaintance's title was on the verge c

I ) iist, and the publisher was convinced thar ;
::e would give it the necessary push.
It always amazes me that these little testi:r
:'.'eryone knows that only favorable commenrs ,
;:ket. (The book you hold in your hands is no e.
-i reader should ignore the praise or at 1easr co
*: criticism, which is always avallable, albeir :
'.=-.-ertheless, IVe written plenty of testimonii
:,-: they were never for rival titles. I hesitated.: \,
:,r-:b be cutting offmy nose to spite mv facei !
--:eofle who might soon vie for the top siori -_
;r---stion, I reaTized social comparison bias had i
:.t rendency to withhold assistance ro peop,r :
, ,-. evefl if you look like a fool in the lons n:::.
Book testimonials are aharmL r, ..]-"1-
:.,;-i:cn bias.However, the phenomenon has :::

