r Just a Two-Horse Iiace
ndness

through a brochure that gushes about the
of the university's MBA degree' Your gazt
or-er photos of the iry-covered camPus and the
,rts tacilities. Sprinkled throughout are images
nts from various ethnic backgrounds with r
mg \\'omen, young Chinese, and young India:
:he Last page you come to an overview that LL
ancial r'alue of an MBA. The $100,000 fee x
$e statistical extra income that graduates ear:
c: $-100,000 -oftt, taxes. Who wouldn't vr'"'
OOi It's a no-brainer.
h an argument hides not one but four faltrr
er-e the sttimrner's body illusion: MBA prograns
riented people who will probably earn abor-r
et some stage of their careers, even without th
ion of an MBA. The second fallacy: An I\'IB-d
s. During this time you can exPect a loss cr
3100.000. So in fact the MBA costs $200,'00r-"-
Trat amount, if invested well, could easilv ex-

&*lf Aobelli

ceed the additional income that the brochure promises. Third,
to estimate earnings that arc more than thirty years away is
idiotic. Who knows what will happen over the next three de-
cades? Finally, other alternatives exist. You are not stuck be-
tween "do an MBlf'and "don't do an MBA." Perhaps you can
find a different program that costs significantly less and also
represents a shot in the arm for your career. This fourth mis-
conception interests me the most. Let's callit alternatizte blind-
ness:We systematically forget to compare an existing offer with
the next-best alternative.
Here's an example from the world of finance: Suppose you
have a little money in your savings account, and you ask your
investment broker for advice. He proposes a bond that will earn
vou 5 percent interest. "That's much better than the 1 percent
you get with your savings account," he points out. Does it make
sense to buy the bond? We dont know. It's wrong to consider
just these two options. To assess your options properly, you
would have to compare the bond with all other investment op-
tions and then select the best. This is how top investor Warren
Buffett does things: "Each deal we measure against the second-
best deal that is available at any given time-even if it means
doing more of whatwe are alrezdy doing."
Unlike Warren Buffett, politicians often fall victim to alter-
native blindness. Let's say your city is planning to build a sports
arena on a.vacant plot ofland. Supporters argue that such an
arena would benefit the population much more that an empty
lot-both emotionally and financially. But this comparison is
\vrong. They should compare the construction of the sports
arena with all other ideas that become impossible due to its
construction-for example, building a school, a performing

213

