r:::g Clearly


spital, or an incinerator. They could also sell
est the proceeds or reduce the city's debt.
> r-ou often overlook the alternatives? Lett sar
f,\ rrs a tumor that will kill you in five years. He
pX.icated operation that, if successful, removes
ieteir-. However, this procedure is highly rish:
rate of iust 50 percent. How do you decide:
rur choices: Certain death in five years or a 50
of dr-ing next week. Alternative blindness! Per-
-ariant of the invasive surgery that your hospi-
b,ut a hospital across town does. This invasir-e
iot remove the tumor altogether, just slow it
ruch saier and gives you an extra ten years. Anti
rte during these ten years a more sophisticate'i
.icadnq tumors willbe made available.
line: If l'ou have trouble making a decision-
the choices are broader than "no surgery" or
urqen-.' Forget about the rock and the hard
\our eves to the other, superior alternatives.

(&

Why We Take Aim at Young Guns
Social Comparison Bias

s one of my books reached number one on the best-
seller list, my publisher asked me for a favor. An ac-

uaintance's title was on the verge of entering the top

i0 list, and the publisher was convinced that a testimonial from
re would give it the necessary push.
It aiways amazes me that these little testimonials work at all.
f r.eryone knows that only favorable comments end up on a book's
-icket. (The bookyou hold in your hands is no exception.) A ratio-
:a1 reader should ignore the praise or at least consider it alongside
ie criticism, which is always available, albeit in different places.
\evertheless, I've written plenty of testimonials for other books,
: rt they were never for rival titles. I hesitated: Wouldnt writing a
:,urb be cutting offmy nose to spite my facel Why should I help
;-!meone who might soon vie for the top slot? As I pondered the
:restion, I realized social comparison bias had kicked in-that is,
:::e tendency to withhoid assistance to people who might outdo
.',-,u, even ifyou look like a fool in the long run.
Book testimonials are a harmless example of the social com-
:.;.ison bias.However, the phenomenon has reached toxic levels

