?h* Art of Yhinleing Clearly

in academia. Every scientist's goal is to publish as many arrifu
as possible in the most prestigious scientific journals. &m
time, you make a name for yourself, and soon editors ask r-ou mr
assess other scientists' submissions. In the end, often just tuu*
or three experts decide what gets published in a particular fre.IC"
Taking this into account, what happens if a young researcbcr
sends in an earth-shattering paper that turns the entire dep*rn'
ment on its head and threatens to knock them offtheir thronc#-
They will be especially rigorous when evaluating the articrc-
That's social coru.parison bias hard at work.
The psychologist Stephen Garcia and his fellow researcl:cm
describe the case of a Nobel laureate who prevented a promir
ing young colleague from applying for a job at "his" unire
sity. This may seem judicious in the short term, but in the lo,ry
run it is counterproductive. What happens when that i'oulg
prodigy joins another research group and applies his acurm
there-most likely depriving the old institution of maintaini.ry
its world-class status? Garcia suggests that social comparison i:i'n
may well be the reason why hardly any research groups rern:.lm
at the top for many years in succession.
the social comparison bias is also a cause for concern wilfu
start-up companies. Guy Kawasaki was "chief evangelist' ,m
Apple for four years. Today he is a venture capitalist and aci-
vises entrepreneurs. Kawasaki says: 'A-players hire people evem,
better than themselves. It's clear, though, that B-players hic
C-players so they can feel superior to them, and C-players hilc
D-players. If you start hiring B-players, expect what Stere
Uobr] called 'thebozo explosion' to happen in your orgaru*
tion." In other words, start hiring B-players and you end ap
withZ-players. Recommendation: Hire people who are betm

216

-Jran you, otherwise you soon preside oyer a p^
The so-called Duning-Kruger effect applies tc
The inept are gifted at overlooking the extent cr
:ence. They suffer from illusory superiorifi-, rl
:o make even more thinking errors, thus creat
:.le that erodes the talent pool over time.
While his school was closed due to an outb:
'-5 6 6- 67, twenty-five7ear-o1d Isaac Nevi,ton
:!ssor, Isaac Barrow, what research he was c<
-.:are time. Barrow immediately gave up his ir
:-rd became a student of Newton. What a nob'.
::hical behavior. When was the last time r-ou h
ilr vacating his post in favor of a better candi
-n-as the last time you read about a CEO cle-ar
then he realized that one of his twenfi' thor
:,ruld do a better job?
In conclusion: Do you foster individuals mt
":u? Admittedly, in the short term, the prepor
::ir endanger your status, but in the long ru
:r:frt from their contributions. Others rvili
i- :ne stage anyway. Until then, you should ee
:-lers'good books-and learn from them. Th
:: testimonial in the end.

