.l-sr::g Clearly


:r-en' scientist's goal is to publish as many artic.s
the most prestigious scientific journals. G,e
-e a narne for vourself, and soon editors ask rou ::
jenli.ts' submissions. In the end, often just nr,:
rs decide ri'hat gets published in a particular fie"i
iro account, lvhat happens if a young researchs
rh-shattering paper that turns the entire depa::-
ad a::d threatens to knock them offtheir thronr;:
*1'rciaLir- rigorous when evaluating the articr.
q!;-i:cn biashard at work.
rloEisr Stephen Garcia and his fellow researchs:
rse of a \obel laureate who prevented a prorn:;-
league ttom applying for a job at "his" unir-r-
"ee::l iudicious in the short term, but in the 1or,g
terproductive. What happens when that you:g
ana:ler research group and applies his acurnr
-i<eh'depriving the old institution of maintaini:s
-.ta:usi Garcia suggests that social comparison hA'
re reason rvhy hardly any research groups rema'-
narir' \-ears in succession.
'sn.i.t"iicn bias is also a cause for concern 'rrl::
'ail:es. Guy Kawasaki was "chief evangelist' r
: l-ears. Today he is a venture capitalist and ac-
rcurs. Karvasaki says: 'A-players hire people er-r.
ernselr-es. It's clear, though, that B-players hi-
Le\- can feel superior to them, and C-players hi:r
rou start hiring B-players, expect what Stelr
ire bozo explosion' to happen in your organiz*
: *-ords, start hiring B-players and you ehd lr
;. Recommendation: Hire people who are bertr

R,olf Dobelli

than you, otherwise you soon preside over a pack of underdogs.
The so-called Duning-Kruger effect applies to such Z-players:
The inept are gifted at overlooking the extent of their incompe-
tence. They suffer from illusory superiority, which leads them
to make even more thinking errors, thus creating a vicious cy-
cle that erodes the talent pool over time.
While his school was closed due to an outbreak of plague in
7666-67, twenty-five-year-o1d Isaac Newton showed his pro-
tessor, Isaac Barrow, what research he was conducting in his
spare time. Barrow immediately gave up his job as a professor
and became a student of Newton. What a noble gesture. What
ethical behavior. When was the last time you heard of a profes-
sor vacating his post in favor of a better candidate? And when
'.r.as the last time you read about a CEO clearing out his desk
rr.hen he realized that one of his twenty thousand employees
:ould do a betterjob?
In conclusion: Do you foster individuals more talented than
r-ou) Admittedly, in the short term, the preponderance of stars
:an endanger your status, but in the long run, you can only
:rofit from their contributions. Others will overtake you at
.ome stage anryay. Until then, you should get in the up-and-
:omers'good books-and learn from them. This is why I wrote
:he testimonial in the end.

2L7

