npressions Are Deceiving

Recency Effects

ne lo inrroduce you to two men, Alan and Be:_
crut thinking about it too long, decide who::
,nerer. -{lan is smart, hardworking, impuisir-:-
rn. and jealous. Ben, however, is jealous, srul*
reul.ir-e, hardworking, and smart. Who wou;
t st;ck rvith in an elevator? Most people choo.*
,Eh the descriptions are exactly the same. Yo';
t amention to the first adjectives in the liss,
identih' two different personalities. Alan -
rrorking. Ben is jealous and stubborn. The fusr
l,e rest. This is called the prirnacy ffict.
or ror the primacy efex, people would refra,-
rt their headquarters with luxuriously appointej
lbur lawyer would feel happy turning up r:
ri-out sneakers rather than beautifully polishei
;

t{e;t triggers practical errors, too. Nobel laurr
neman describes how he used to grade eximi-
: the beginning of his professorship. He did i:

fiort Lr0tretIl

as most teachers do-in order: student 1 followed by student
2 and so on. This meant that students who answered the first
questions flawlessly endeared themselves to him, thus affecting
how he graded the remaining parts of their exams. So, Kahne-
man switched methods and began to grade the individual
questions in batches-all the answers to question one, then the
answers to question two, and so forth. Thus, he canceled out
the primacy ffict.
Unfortunately, this trick is not always replicable. When re-
cruiting a new employee, for exampler /ou run the risk of hir-
ing the person who makes the best first impression. Ideally, you
rvould set up all the candidates in order and let them answer
the same question one after the other.
Suppose you sit on the board of a company. A point of dis-
cussion is raised-a topic on which you have not yet passed
judgment. The first opinion you hear will be crucial to your
overall assessment. The same applies to the other participants,
a fact that you can exploit: Ifyou have an opinion, don't hesitate
airing it first. This way, you will influence your colleagues more
and draw them over to your side. If however, you are chairing
the committee, always ask members' opinions in random order
so that no one has an unfair advantage.
the primacy ffict is not always the culprit; the contrasting
'recency effect" matters as well. The more recent the informa-
tion, the better we remember it. This occurs because our short-
term memory fi1e drawer, as it were, contains very little extra
space. When a new piece of information gets fi1ed, an older
piece of information is discarded to make room.
When does theprimacy efect supersede the recency ffix, or
l'ice versa? If you have to make an immediate decision based

219

