
{13

Why First Impressions Are Deceiving

Primacy and RecencY Effects

llow me to introduce you to two men, Alan and Bc-
Without thinking about it too long, decide u-horz
you prefer. Alan is smart' hardworking, impulshr-

critical, stubborn, and jealous. Ben, however, is jealous, str:-*
born, critical, impulsive, hardworking, and smart. Who u-ou'ri
you prefer to get stuck with in an elevator? Most people cho..-lx
Alan, even though the descriptions are exactly the same' \b':
brain pays more attention to the first adjectives in the 1k='
causing you to identify two different personalities. Alan s
smart and hardworking. Ben is jealous and stubborn. The 6:s
traits outshine the rest. This is called the primacy ffict.
If it were not for the primacy ffix, people would refra::
from decking out their headquarters with luxuriously appointei
entrance halls. Your lawyer would feel happy turning up ::
meet you in worn-out sneakers rather than beautifully polishei
designer oxfords.
The primacy effex triggers practical errors, too. Nobel laur
ate Daniel Kahneman describes how he used to grade exarri
nation papers at the beginning of his professorship. He dici r

i: most teachers do-in order: student 1 fol
I and so on. This meant that students rr'ho '
iuestions flawlessly endeared themselves to h
::orv he graded the remaining parts of their e
::lan switched methods and began to grr'
iuestions in batches-allthe answers to que:
;sswers to question two, and so forth' Thu'
|rc primacy ffict.
UnfortunatelS this trick is not ahvavs ret
::uiting a new employee, for example, )ou r
::ig the person who makes the best first impr'
',.ould set up all the candidates in order an'
:jle same question one after the other'
Suppose you sit on the board of a compa
:-ission is raised-a topic on which I'ou h;
':dgment. The first opinion you hear s i11
:,r-erall assessment. The same applies to the
. iact that you can exploit: Ifyou have an opi
.iring it first. This way, you will influence r o
.rd draw them over to your side' If, ho'rver-t
:re committee, always ask members' opinio:
:r that no one has an unfair advantage'
ahe primaclt efect is not always the culp
-:ecency effect" matters as we1l. The more t
:ion, the better we remember it. This occur!
:erm memory file drawer, as it were, conta
.race. When a new piece of information
:iece of information is discarded to make rs
When does the primacy ffict sttpercede
'.-ice versa? If you have to make an immei

