:king Clearlv

, fool, us into thinking anything we create our-
rble.
!i causes you to fal1in love with your own ideas.
: onlr- for fish sauces, but for all kinds of solu-
deas, and inventions. Companies tend to rate
as as far more important than those from out-
>bjectively, this is not the case. I recently hai
IEO of a company that specialrzes in software
rnce firms. He told me how difficult it is to sell
lotential customers, even though his firm is the
1 terms of service, security, and functionalin-.
:e convinced that the best solution is what ther-
ernselves in-house over the past thirty year:"
rol,i me how hard it is to get his staff in the
quarters to accept solutions proposed from far*
]s-
e collaborate to solve problems and then evalu-
rhemselves, NIH syndrorne will inevitably e-r-
" Thus, it makes sense to split teams into trvr-,
r Eroup generates ideas, the second rates them.
,\ e tend to rate our own business ideas as more
other people's concepts. This self:confidence
of rhrir-ing entrepreneurship but also explains
::rdr- miserable returns.
slchologist Dan Ariely measured the NIH syn-
in his blog at the NeuYork Times, Ariely askei
ie solutions to six issues, such as "How can cit-
' co:rsumption without limiting it by 1aw?" The
:alie suggestions and to assess the feasibility oi
rp'osed. They also had to specify how much oi

33oif $*b*ltr1

rheir time and money they would invest in each idea. Finaily,
they were limited to using a set list of fifty words, ensuring
that everyone gave more or less the same answers. Despite this,
the majority rated their own responses as more important and
epplicable than the others, even though the submissions were
','irtually identical.
On a societal level, NIH syndromehas serious consequences.
\Ve overiook shrewd ideas simplybecause they come from other
--ultures. In Switzerland, where each state or "canton" has cer-
:ain powers, one tiny canton never approved woment suffrage;
:t took a federal court ruling in 1990 to change the 1aw-a star-
:1ing case of NIH. Or consider the modern trafr.c roundabout,
rrith its clear yield requirements, that was designed by British
:ransport engineers in the 1960s and implemented throughout
:he UK. It took another thirty years ful1 of oblivion and resis-
:ance until this obvious traffic decongestant found its way in
:he United States and continental Europe. Today France alone
:as more than thirty thousand roundabouts, which the French
:ow probably falsely attribute to the designer of the Place de

- Ltorle.

In conclusion: We are drunk on our own ideas. To sober up,
:rke a step back every now and then and examine their quality
rr hindsight. Which ofyour ideas from the past ten years were
::uly outstanding? Exactly.

223

