?h* Art of Thinking Cleariy

syndrome),which fools us into thinking anything we create o.;-
selves is unbeatable.

NIH syndrome causesyou to fall in love with your own ide;,.
This is valid not only for fish sauces, but for all kinds of so:,_
tions, business ideas, and inventions. Companies tend to r::
homegrown ideas as far more important than those from o:_
siders, even if objectively, this is not the case. I recentlr-ha:
lunch with the CEO of a company that specializes in sof,rrra-
for health insurance firms. He told me how dificult it is to ;.*
his software to potential customers, even though his firm is --:r
market leader in terms of service, security, and functionai:,
Most insurers are convinced that the best solution is what tn:r
have crafted themselves in-house over the past thirty r.e-.
Another CEO told me how hard it is to get his staff in ::c
company's headquarters to accept solutions proposed from ;-::_
flung subsidiaries.
When people collaborate to solve problems and then e\-L-,-
ate these ideas themselves, NIH syndrome will inevitablr e-:-
ert an influence. Thus, it makes sense to split teams into r,v:
groups. The first group generates ideas, the second rates the:*
and vice versa. we tend to rate our own business ideas as m,ri:
successful than other people's concepts. This selFconfidere
forms the basis of thriving entrepreneurship but also explai:*
start-ups' frequently miserable returns.
This is howpsychologist Dan Ariely measured the NIH s.,"-"_
drome. Writing in his blog at the Nezayork Times,Ariely asiir,:
readers to provide solutions to six issues, such as "How can cr:-
ies reduce water consumption without limiting it by law?" Tlr
readers had to make suggestions ahd to assess the feasibilin :r
all the ideas proposed. They also had to specify how much .r

222

:reir time and money they would invest in
:hey were limited to using a set list of hr
::lat everyone gave more or less the same an
:re majority rated their own responses as x
i:plicable than the others, even though rh
r":rtualll identical.
On a societal level, NIH syndromehas se:
--\t overlook shrewd ideas simply because t-::
:-:ltures. In Switzerland, where each stare ,:
::.in powers, one tiny canton never appro\-e!
,: look a federal court ruling in 1990 to cha:.
--:rg case of NIH. Or consider the modern
n:th its clear yield requirements, that u-as c
:insport engineers in the 1960s and impie:
-*: UK. It took another thirty years full o:
:.i::ce until this obvious traffic decongesrai:
:*: United States and continental Europe. 1
:is more than thirty thousand roundabourr.
:,.t-probably falsely attribute to the desi-
. iroiie.

In conclusion: We are drunk on our o\l-ii
ri.ie a step back every now and then and er;
r- ::indsight. Which ofyour ideas from the :
:--r- outstanding? Exactly.

