
'{b

How to Profit from the Implausible
The Black Swan

11 swans are white." For centuries, this statement wrs
watertight. Every snowy specimen corroborated th;*
A swan in a different color? Unthinkabie. That rcnr

until the year 1-697, when Willem de Vlamingh saw a blark
swan for the first time during an expedition to Australia. Si*-'
then, black swans have become symbols of the improbable.
You invest money in the stock market. Year in,yeat out, the
Dow Jones rises and falls a little. Gradually, you grow acfl]s-
tomed to this gentle up and down. Then, suddenly, a day litr
October 19,1987, comes around and the stock market tumbks
22 percent. With no warning. This event is a Black Szoan. w
described by Nassim Taleb in his bookwith the same title.
A Black Swan is an unthinkable event that massively affom
your life, your career, your comPany, your country. There are posi
tive and negative Black Suanr. The meteorite that flattens rrs-
Sutter's discovery of gold in California, the collapse of the Soria
LJnion, the invention of the transistor, the Internet browser, tir
overthrow of Egyptian dictator lV[ubarak, or another encountsr
that upturns your life completely-allarc Black Sttsans.

Think what you like of former U.S. secr
Donald Rumsfeld, but at a press conference
pressed a philosophical thought with exceptir
he offered this observation: There are thinqs *
tacts"), there are things we do not knolv (-knc
and there are things we do not knorv that '
,."unknown unknowns").
How big is the universe? Does Iran har
ons? Does the Internet make us smarter or i:
-known unknowns." With enough effort. 'rre
;rver these one day. Unlike the "unkno'rvn u.r
:oresaw Facebook mania ten years ago. It is r
Why are Black Sutans important? Becau.,
nay sound, they are cropping up more ani
:nd they tend to become more consequenrir-
:ontinue to plan for the future, Black S';ar: ,
:est-laid plans. Feedback loops and nonliner
i"-t and cause unexpected results. The reasor
Jesigned to help us hunt and gather. Back r:
'.r-e hardly ever encountered anything trulr e:
ieer we chased was sometimes a bit faster or s
i llttle bit fatter or thinner. Everything rer-oh t

:tean.
Today is different. With one breakthror
::ease your incomeby a factor of ten thousar:
?age, Usain Bolt, George Soros, J. K. RouLn
::rtunes did not exist previously; peaks oi t1
{nown. Only in the most recent of human hisr
:.:ssible-hence our problem with extreme
::obabilities cannot fall below zero, and our t

