fit from the Implausible

wan

iens are white." For centuries, this statement n-rs
:rriqht. Every snowy specimen corroborated thi..
,r-an in a different color? Unthinkable. fhat u-as
769;. rvhen Willem de Vlamingh saw a blaci
rst time during an expedition to Australia. Sincr
-ans have become symbols of the improbable.
rnone\- in the stock market. Year in, year out, rr
;es and fa1ls a little. Gradually, you grow accu-r-
gentle up and down. Then, suddenly, a day lik:
?E7. comes around and the stock market tumble;
r-ith no rvarning. This event is a Black Sztan, a*
\a-.sim Taleb in his bookwith the same title.
:un is an unthinkable event that massively affecs
career! \our company, your country. There are pos-
tte Black SvLans. The meteorite that flattens rcr;
=rr-of gold in California, the collapse of the Sor-ie
,sntion of the transistor, the Internet browser, tix
E$pdan dictator Mubarak, or another encbune
xrr lite completely-all are Black SuLans.

kAtr !:nsat!t

Think what you like of former U.S. secretary of defense
Donald Rumsfeld, but at a press conference in 2002, he ex-
pressed a philosophical thought with exceptional clarity when
he offered this observation: There are things we know ("known
facts"), there are things we do not know ("known unknowns"),
and there are things we do not know that we do not know
("unknown unknowns").
How big is the universe? Does lran have nuclear weap-
ons? Does the Internet make us smarter or dumber? These are
"known unknowns." With enough effort, we can hope to an-
swer these one day. Unlike the "unknown unknowns." No one
foresaw Facebook mania ten years ago. It ts a Black Susan.
Why are Black Svtans important? Because, as absurd as it
may sound, they are cropping up more and more frequently
and they tend to become more consequential. Though we can
continue to plan for the future, Black Szuani often destroy our
bestlaid plans. Feedback loops and nonlinear influences inter-
act and cause unexpected results. The reason: Our brains are
designed to help us hunt and gather. Back in the Stone Age,
rve hardly ever encountered anything truly extraordinary. The
deer we chased was sometimes a bit faster or slower, sometimes
-r little bit fatter or thinner. Everything revolved around a stable
:Ttean.
Today is different. With one breakthrough, you can in-
.rease your incomeby a factor of ten thousand. Just ask Lariy
Page, Usain Bo1t, George Soros, J. K. Rowling, or Bono. Such
:ortunes did not exist previously; peaks of this size were un-
rinown. Only in the most recent of human history has this been
:ossible-hence our problem with extreme scenarios. Since
:robabilities cannot fall below zero, and our thought processes

225

