Ihe Ari oi Thirrking Clearly

the optimum composition of a portfolio, taking into accous
both risk and return prospects. When it came to Markorvius
own portfolio-how he should allot his savings into stor-m
and bonds-he simply opted for fifty-fifty distribution: ha} m.
shares, the other half in bonds. The Nobel Prize winner was i:-
capable of appiying his ingenious process to his own affair'- -t
blatant case of domain dependence:He failed to transfer knour.
edge from the academic world to the private sphere.
A friend of mine is a hopeless adrenaline junkie, scri:-r$
overhanging cliffs with his bare hands, and launching hirnieff
offmountains in a wing suit. He explained to me last weekrr::r
starting a business is dangerous: Bankruptcy can never be nrlei
out. "Personally, I'd rather be bankrupt than dead," I replie.:
He didnt appreciate my logic.
As an author, I realize just how difficult it is to tran-*
skills to a new area. For me, devising plots for my novels "'i
creating characters are a cinch. A blank, emPty page doer.i
daunt me. It's quite a different story with, say, an empty aPr:-
ment. When it comes to interior decor, I can stand in the rooqu.
for hours, hands in my pockets, devoid of one single idea'
Business is teeming with domain dependence. A sofrtra:t
company recruits a successful consumer-goods salesman. T-s
new position blunts his talents; transferring his sales skills ircm
products to services is exceedingly difficult. Similarly, a P:t*
senter who is outstanding in front of small grouPs mav rreff,
tank when his audience reaches one hundred people. Or a m-:'
ented marketing mind maybe promoted to CEO and sudder-lr
find that he lacks any strategic creativity.
With the Markowitz .ru*pl", we saw that the tran#
from the professional realm to the private realm is particula:r

228

Jifficult to navigate. I know CEOs who are cl
:n the ofice and hopeless duds at home. Sim:
; hard task to find a more cigarette-toting pr
:rophets of health themselves, the doctors. I
:rr.ice as violent at home as civilians. Literan
:he poorest reviews. And, almost proverbiai
-: couples' therapists are frequently more li
-: their clients. Mathematics professor Barn
;:ory: "Some years ago I was trying to deciCe
':rould move from Stanford to Harvard. I hai
'jlv with endless discussion. Finally, one of r
- :e of our leading decision theorists. Marbe ,
i list of the costs and benefits and try to rousl
::ipected utility.' Without thinking, I blurtei
::ndy, this is serious."'
What you master in one area is difficult r
:--rer. Especially daunting is the transfer fron
-:i-from the theoretically sound to the pra
l: course, this also counts for this book. Ir
.- transfer the knowledge from these pages r,
;-,-en for me as the writer, that transition pror
:r-e. Book smarts don't transfer to street smar:

