.r:l-i:ng Clearly


:omposition of a portfolio, taking into accounr
:eturn prospects. When it came to Markowitz's
-ho*- he should allot his savings into stock
: .inpiv opted for fifty-fifty distribution: half L:
:r half in bonds. The Nobel Prize winner was in-
linE his ingenious process to his own affairs. ,{
-i.,;,iin dependence: He failed to transfer knonl-
arademic world to the private sphere.
i mine is a hopeless adrenaline junkie, scalin:
:fs rrith his bare hands, and launching himsel:
i:: : u-ing suit. He explained to me last week r,r'hr-
le=: is dangerous: Bankruptcy can never be rulec
:; I'd rather be bankrupt than dead," I repliei
eci;te mr'logic.
:or. I reaiize just how difficult it is to transtk
' ire a. For me, devising plots for my novels ani
i:ers are a cinch. A blank, empty page doesn:
quite a different story with, say, an emPty aPan-
: .L-rmes to interior decor, I can stand in the roor
is ir mr-pockets, devoid of one single idea.
, reeming wrth domain dependence. A softwa:t
rir. a successful consumer-goods salesman. The
lunis his talents; transferring his sales skills fror.
'n-ices is exceedingly difficult. Similarly, a pre-
.-'utstanding in front of small grouPs may u-e-
auiience reaches one hundred people. Or a ta-
:g mind may be promoted to CEO and suddenlr
;ks rm' strategic creativity.
\larkorvitz example, we saw that the trhnsfr
ssional realm to the private realm is particularr

Rol f Derbelii

difficult to navigate. I know cEos who are charismatic leaders
in the office and hopeless duds at home. Similarly, it would be
a hard task to find a more cigarette-toting profession than the
prophets of health themselves, the doctors. Police officers are
fwice as violent at home as civilians. Literary critics'novels get
the poorest reviews. And, almost proverbially, the marriages
of couples' therapists are frequently more fragile than those
of their clients. Mathematics professor Barry Mazur tells this
story: "Some years ago I was trying to decide whether or not I
should move from Stanford to Harvard. I had bored my friends
sil1y with endless discussion. Fina1ly, one of them said, 'You're
one of our leading decision theorists. Mryb" you should make
a list of the costs and benefits and try to roughly calculate your
expected utility.'Without thinking, I blurted out, 'Come on,
Sandy, this is serious."'
What you master in one area is difficult to transfer to an-
rther. Especially daunting is the transfer from academia to real
ife-from the theoretically sound to the practically possible.
Of course, this also counts for this book. It will be difficult
:o transfer the knowledge from these pages to your daily life.
Even for me as the writer, that transition proves to be a tough
rne. Book smarts don't transfer to street smarts easily.

229

