

tt

The Myth of Like-Mindedness

False - C onser2sus Effect

hich do you prefer: music from the '60s or ::m
sic from the '80s? How do you think the ged
public wouid answer this question? Most Pe'-":!sk

tend to extrapolate their preferences onto others. If thev rrc

the '60s, they will automatically assume that the majonil

their peers do, too. The same goes for '80s aficionados' \lh
frequently overestimate unanimity with others, believing 5a
everyone else thinks and feels exactly like we do. This failarrh
called the fa I s e - co n s e n s us efe c t.

Stanford psychologist Lee Ross hit upon this in 7977' ib
fashioned a sandwich board emblazoned with the slogan "E.*
at Joe's" and asked randomly selected students to wear it arcold
campus for thirty minutes. They also had to estimate how rnsm
other students would put themselves forward for the task' Thrr
who declared themselves willing to wear the sign assumed ths: fu
majority (62 percert) would also agree to it. On the other h;:rd'

those who politely refused believed that most people (67 perc@
would find it too stupid to underiake. In both cases, the studril
imagined themselves to be in the popular majority.

the folse-consensus efect thrives in interest
-:lical factions that consistently overrate the p,
:iuses. An obvious example is global warminr
:.1 r'ou consider the issue to be, you probat'trr
:.{ority of people share your opinlon. Sim't:
:":e confident of election, it's not just blind opr
- rt help overestimating their popularin-.
-\rtists are even worse off. In 99 percen:
::-ev expect to achieve more success than er.-r
i,, ral example: I was completely convinced t:
:.:c Marini would be a resounding success.
-:: od as my previous books, I thought, and t::,-
'-:11. But the public was of a different opinior-
. :ong: fa lse - co nsen s u s efect.
Of course, the business world is equallr- l:
: ,:clusions. Just because an R & D depar:r:
:: its product's appeal doesn't mean consurlE
-,i:re way. Companies with tech people in ch:
ii:cted. lnventors fallin love with their proi'-
ir.:ures and mistakenly believe that these rt-'

_ ",-a:, too.
7he false-consensus ffict is fascinating :c:
"::-. If people do not share our opinions- *-t
i-. -abnormal." Ross's experiment also corr.'l
"::Jents who wore the sandwich board cor-.
*.i:sed to be stuck up and humorless, u'here"
';.',r,'ths sign-wearers as idiots and attention i
Perhaps you remember the fallacy of sc:'.;'
-:-:: an idea is better the more people belier-e
::..ltstts ffictidentrcal? No. Socialproof rs an

