of Like-Mindedness
rensus Effect

'irich do you prefer: music from the '60s or mu-
sic iiom the '80s? How do you think the generi
public would answer this question? Most peopi:
apolate their preferences onto others' If they lort
:'r rriil automatically assume that the majorin-cuj
do. too. The same goes for '80s aficionados' \\i
".-erestimate unanimity with others, believing thr
e rhinks and feels exactly like we do' This fallao-rr

i-;:-:lnsensus ffict,
r--rchologist Lee Ross hit upon this in 7977' H*
sandrvich board emblazoned with the slogan "Ee
. a-.ked randomly selected students to wear it arouni
-'lirtr- minutes. They also had to estimate how mar:t
irs.vould put themselves forward for the task' Thosr
oL themselves willing to wear the sign assumed that the
I p,ercent) would also agree to it' On the other harxl
rclirelr'refused believed that most people (67 percer
h too stupid to undertake. In both cases, the studen:s
rr:rselrrs to be in the popular majoriry

Itolf Dcbeili

the false-consensus ffict thrives in interest groups and po-
litical factions that consistently overrate the popularity of their
causes. An obvious example is global warming. However criti-
cal you consider the issue to be, you probably believe that the
majority of people share your opinion. Similarly, if politicians
are confident of election, it's not just blind optimism: They can-
not help overestimating their popularity.
Artists are even worse off. In 99 percent of new projects,
they expect to achieve more success than ever before. A per-
sonal example: I was completely convinced that my novel Mas-
simo Marini would be a resounding success. It was at least as
good as my previous books, I thought, and those had done very
rvell. But the public was of a different opinion and I was proven
w r ong: fa I s e - co n s en s us elfe c t.
Of course, the business world is equally prone to such false
:onclusions. Just because an R & D department is convinced
of its product's appeal doesn't mean consumers will think the
same way. Companies with tech people in charge are especially
rffected. Inventors fall in love with their products'sophisticated
:-eatures and mistakenly believe that these will bowl customers
.l\.er, too,
the false-consensus efect is fascinating for yet another rea-
.on. If people do not share our opinions, we categorize them
:s "abnormal." Ross's experiment also corroborated this: The
.tudents who wore the sandwich board considered those who
:efused to be stuck up and humorless, whereas the other camp
'aw the sign-wearers as idiots and attention seekers.
Perhaps you remember the fallacy of socialproof, the notion
:hat an idea is better the more people believe in it. Is thefolse-
:,nsensxts ffict identtcal? No. Sociatproofis an evolutionary sur-

237

