The Art *f Thinking 0le ariY

political issues, such as thelegalization of drugs. Their resPo:r-'-
es ranged from "fully agree" to "completely disagree." Ten r-e;:i
later, he interviewed them again on the same topics, and a;r
asked what they had replied ten years previously. The re;'- n-
What they recalled disclosing rn 7973 was almost identica- r
their present-day views-and a far cry from their original =-

sponses.
By subconsciously adjusting past views to fit present o:'':t'
we avoid any embarrassing proof of our fallibility. It's a clr's
coping strategy because no matter how tough we are, admitl:rg
mistakes is an emotionally difficult task. But this is prepo>:Y-
ous. Shouldn't we let out a whoop ofjoy every time we rerl;rp
we are wrong? After all, such admissions would ensure u'e rril
never make the same mistake twice and have essentially taXsm'
a step forward. But we do not see it that way.
So does this mean our brains contain no accurately etchi
memories? Surely not! After all, you can recall the exact m:*
ment when you met your partner as if it were captured i: u
photo. And you can remember exactlywhere you were on Se-
tember 77, 2007, when you learned of the terrorist attack m
New York, right? You recall to whom you were speaking :rC
how you felt. Your memories of 9/71are extraordinarilv r-i"C
and detailed. Psychologists call these "flashbulb memori**:
They feel as incontestable as photographs.
They are not. Flashbulb memories are as flawed as reti:-
lar recoliections. They are the product of reconstruction. L hl
Neisser, one of the pioneers in the field of cognitive scien;s-
investigated them: In 1986, the day after the explosion oi:rc
Challenger space shuttle, he asked students to write essar-s j'*
tailing their reactions. Three years later, he interviewed them

234

:gain. Less than 7 percent ofthe new data co
:nitial submissions. In fact, 50 percent of the r,
incorrect in two-thirds of the points, and 25
:natch even a single detail. Neisser took one ot
fapers and presented it to its owner. Her ans
nv handwriting, but I couldn't have written tL
:emains: Why do flashbulb memories feel st
rnow yet.
It is safe to assume that half of w'hat r
-.'.-rong. Our memories are riddled with inac;i
::re seemingly flawless flashbulb memories. C
:rn be harmless-or lethal. Consider the ro-
='.-ewitness testimony and police lineups to ii
],: trust such accounts without additional inr-t
-::s, even if the witnesses are adamant that t
::cognize the perpetrator again.

