:qx:::g ClearlY

. such as the legali zatiortof drugs' Their respon'-
r -fu11)- agtee" to "completely disagree'" Ten vea:i
ries-ed them again on the same topics' and J;:
rer-had replied ten years previously' The resu-:
calLed disclosing in 1973 was almost identical :'
J.t'.-i..rr-unJ u fut cry from their original rr-

rsciouslr- adjusting past views to fit present on*'
-.*brrrrrri.,g proof of our fatlibility' It's a cler-
$- because no matter how tough we are' admittir:
f .*orion"l1y difficult task' But this is Preposte:-
ft rre let out a whoop of joy every time tvs lsxhzt
ei Atler all, such admissions would ensure we \\-'
the same mistake twice and have essentially takr-
rd. But u'e do not see it that waY'
this mean our brains contain no accurately etche;
Sureh- notl After all, you can recall the exact mc-
r-oll met youf partner as if it were caPtured in t
,r ou can remember exactly where you were on Sev
;;i *'hen you learned of the terrorist attack ::-
righti You recall to whom you were speaking ani
it. \bur memories of 9111are extraordinariiy vir-ri
J. P,t.hologists call these "flashbulb memories":
-. incontestable as PhotograPhs'
re not. Flashbulb memories are as flawed as regl-
:dons. They are the product of reconstruction' Ul-n:
ne of the pioneers in the field of cognitive science-
:C rhem: t., fqgO, the day after the explosion of tht
lrnr.. shuttle, he asked students to write essays ci-
sir reactions. Three years later' he interviewed the=

Rolf Dobelli

again. Less than 7 percent of the new data correlated with the
initial submissions.In fact,50 percent of the recollections were
incorrect in two-thirds of the points, and 25 percent failed to
match even a single detail. Neisser took one of these conflicting
papers and presented it to its owner. Her answer: "I know it's
my handwriting, but I couldn't have written this'" The question
remains: Why do flashbulb memories feel so real? We don't
know yet.
It is safe to assume that half of what you remember is
wrong. Our memories are riddled with inaccuracies' including
the seemingly flawless flashbulb memories' Our faith in them
can be harmless-or lethal. Consider the widespread use of
eyewitness testimony and police lineups to identify criminais'
To trust such accounts without additional investigation is reck-
less, even if the witnesses are adamant that they would easiir'
recognize the perPetrator again.

235

