lnfify with Your Football Team
'-Group Bias

i I u-as a child, a typicalwintery Sunday looli:;
e rhis: lIv family sat in front ofthe TVwatchir:s
li: r.:.ce. )Iv parents cheered for the Swiss skie-
to io the same. I didnt understand the fu:s-
r JLrl\-n a mountain on two planks? It makes as
rpp:ng up the mountain on one leg, while ju:-
; aid stopping every hundred feet to hurl a ios
Se.-,rnd. how can one*hundredth of a secon;
'encei Common sense would say that if peoprr
Frher. they are equally good skiers. Third, n-h-,;
,--,r-i:h rhe Swiss skiers? Was I related to an.oi
i.ink so. I didnt even know what they though:
iired a few feet over the Swiss border, I wouii
o' cheer for another team altogether.
r.rs to the question: Does identifying with a
i ream) an ethnicity, a company, a state-
thinking?
rds of years, evolution has shaped every behar--
:luding attraction to certain groups. In times

$,,*]l i)*b*il.i

past, group membership was vital. F,ending for yourself was
close to impossible. As people began to form alliances, all had
:o follow suit' Individuars stood .ro .hurr.. against colrectives.
\Vhoever rejected membership or got expelled forfeited their
place not only in the group, but alsoin the gene pool. No won_
ier we are such social animals_our ancestors were, too.
Psychologists have investigated different group effects.
These can be neatly categorized.under the ternl in_group out_
iroup bias. First, groups often form based on _i.ror,".rr"r,rirr_
:a1, criteria' with sports affiliations a rand.om birthplace suf-
ices, and in business it is where you work. To t.ri this, the
tsritish psychologist Henri Tajfel split strangers into groups,
:ossing a coin to choose who went to which group. H. tota tt.
rembers of one group it was because they all liked a particular
lpe of art. fhe results were impressive: Although (a) ,h"y*.r.
itrangers, (b) they were allocated a group at random, and (c)
:hey were far from art connoisseurs, the group members found
:ach other more agreeable than -.*b.r, of other groups. Sec_
rnd, you perceive people outside your own group to be more
.imilar than they actually are. This is called the ,,out_group
iomogeneity bias.,, Stereotypes and prejudices stem from it.
Have you ever noticed that, in ,.i.r.._fi.tion movies, only the
:lumans have different cultures and the aliens do notl Third,
=ince groups often form on the basis of common values, group
rembers receive a disproportionate amount of support for their
rrvn views' This distortion is dangerous, especially in business:
It leads to the infamous organizational blindness.
Family members helping one another out is u,derstandable.
liyou share half your genes with your siblings, you are natu_
:ally interested in their well-being. But there is such a thing as

237

