?p

Why You Identify with Your Football Team
In-Group Out-GtouP Bias

hen I was a child, a typical wintery Sunday looh::t
like this: My family sat in front of the TVwatchi:q
a ski race. My parents cheered for the Swiss skim

and wanted me to do the same. I didn't understand the hii;-
First, why zoomdown a mountain on two planks? It make= ss
little sense as hopping up the mountain on one leg, whiie iu:-
gling three balls and stopping every hundred feet to hurl a I'E
as far possible. Second, how can one-hundredth of a secori
count as a difference? Common sense would say that if peoprr
are that close together, they are equally good skiers' Third, n-:o
should I identify with the Swiss skiers? was I related to anr' ,f
them? I didn't think so. I didn't even know what they thous:r
or read, and if I lived a few feet over the Swiss border, I wouJ
probably (have to) cheer for another team altogether'
This brings us to the question: Does identifying with r
group-a sports team, an ethnicity, a comPany, a state*
represent flawed thinking? r
Over thousands of years, evolution has shaped every behar-
ioral pattern, including attraction to certain grouPs' In times

rast, group membership was vital. Fendinq
:lose to impossible. As people began to form
:r follow suit. Individuals stood no chance a!
l\'hoever rejected membership or got expeLl,
:l.ace not only in the group, but also in the ge:
ier we are such social animals-our ancesror:
Psychologists have investigated differer
Trese can be neatly categorized under the rt
:'cup bias. First, groups often form based on
-.:"1, criteria. With sports affiliations a randor
i;es, and in business it is where you work.
3ritish psychologist Henri Tajfel split stra::,
:--,ssing a coin to choose who went to which ;:
::embers of one group it was because ther- al l
:-- pe of art. The results were impressive: Althc'
:irzflgerS, (b) they were allocated a group a:
::-.\'were far from art connoisseurs, the gro'j:
:.;h other more agreeable than members oi --
.:-d, you perceive people outside your o\1-n s
;:ilar than they actually are. This is calle.
-, - rrogeneity bias." Stereotypes and preiuc:;
:-i.\,'e you ever noticed that, in science-ficti,t:-
---:nans have different cultures and the aiie:
-:::re groups often form on the basis of coi::
- -:nbers receive a disproportionate amourr -':
',i-n 1zis141s. This distortion is dangerous. e:?=i
-: -eads to the infamous organizattonal blir:;:
Family members helping one another ou: -,
--j', ou share half your genes with your sib-:,
-."r-interested in their well-being. But the:< :

