-.-----t--


n:re iLr rhe ropics of risk and uncertainty (or arr-
re iii!rence berween them. Risk means that th:
t kr..*-n. Uncertainty means that the probabilr-
r-;:. On the basis of risk, you can decide whethe:
:. ga:rlie. In the realm of uncertainty, thoug::_
:: i,l. irake decisions. The terms "risk" and "ul:-
-: lrequentlr'mixed up as "cappuccino" and "1are
'i:h rruch graver consequences. You can makr
i:lr :isk. but not with uncertainty. The three-
r1,J science of risk is called statistics. A host o:
,.r-i:h it. but not a single textbook exists on thr
-ainn-. Because of this, we try to squeeze ac:-
x c;.:e3ories, but it doesn't really fit. Let's loos
:s: one tiom medicine (where it works) and on:
r::r- u-here it does not).
ii.iio::s of humans on earth. Our bodies do n.r:
e-lr. \\'e all reach a similar height (no one u-i,"
ndred teet tall) and a similar age (no one rri-
lsenC \-ears-or for only a millisecond). Most o:
rs. tbur heart valves, thirty-two teeth. Another
:onsider us to be homogeneous-as similar tc
rre consider mice to be. For this reason, there
a-r ,Liseases and it makes sense to say, for ex-
s a i0 percent risk you will die of cancer." On
, lhe tollowing assertion is meaningless: "There
'hance that the euro wi1l collapse in the next fir-e
he economy resides in the realm of uncertainn-.
brllions of comparable currencies from who"e
derive probabilities. The difference betweer
:-inn'a1so illustrates the difference between life

H,olf Dobelli

insurance and credit default swaps. A credit default swap is an
insurance policy against specific defaults, a particular compa-
ny's inability to pay.In the first case (life insurance), we are
in the calculable domain of risk; in the second (credit default
swap), we are dealing with uncertainty. This confusion con-
tributed to the chaos of the financial crisis in 2008. If you hear
phrases such as "the risk of hyperinflation is x percent,, or ,,the
risk to our equity position is y," start worrying.
To avoid hasty judgment, you must learn to tolerate am-
biguity" This is a difficult task and one that you cannot influ-
ence actively. Your amygd ala plays a crucial ro1e. This is a nut-
sized area in the middle of the brain responsible for processing
memory and emotions. Depending on how it is built, you will
tolerate uncertainty with greater ease or difficulty. This is evi-
dent not least in your political orientation: fhe more averse you
are to uncertainty, the more conservatively you will vote. your
political views have a partral biological underpinning.
Either way, whoever hopes to think clearly must understand
the difference between risk and uncertainty. Only in very few
areas can we count on clear probabilities: casinos, coin tosses,
and probability textbooks. Often we are left with troublesome
ambiguity. Learn to take it in stride.

