i'he,\r'i *f Thint.ing Cle*i'lv

Thus we come to the topics of risk and uncertainty (or a=-
biguity), and the difference between them. Risk means that :
probabilities are known. Uncertainty means that the proba:l-
ties are unknown. On the basis of riskr /ou czn decide whet-:,r
or not to take a gamble. In the realm of uncertainty, thoul
it's much harder to make decisions. The terms "risk" and --;=
certainty" are as frequently mixed up as "cappuccino" and ---:u
macchiato'Lwith much graver consequences. You can meslr
calculations with risk, but not with uncertainty. The th:*-
hundred-year-old science of risk is called statistics' A hos: #
professors deal with it, but not a single textbook exists on -=x
sub.iect of uncertainty. Because of this, we try to squeeze a::-
biguity into risk categories, but it doesn't really fit. Let's 1o:,s
at two examples: one from medicine (where it works) and crr
from the economy (where it does not).
There are billions of humans on earth. Our bodies do n:n
differ dramatically. We all reach a similar height (no one ro:-l
ever be one hundred feet tall) and a similar age (no one rr:-I
live for ten thousand years-or for only a millisecond)' Mos: f
us have two eyes, four heart valves, thirty-two teeth' Anothc
species would consider us to be homogeneous-as similar :
one another as we consider mice to be. For this reason, thm
are many similar diseases and it makes sense to say, for er
ample: "There is a 30 percent risk you will die of cancer'" On
the other hand, the following assertion is meaningless: "Thet
is a 30 percent chance that the euro will collapse in the next f:,e
years." Why? The economy resides in the realm of uncertainr-
There are not billions of compatable currencies from whost
history we can derive probabilities. The difference befrveen
risk and uncertainty also illustrates the difference between li.fr

240

:rsurance and credit default swaps. A credit d
-:rsurance policy against specific defaults, a p
:r''s inability to p^y.In the firsr case (life in
-: the calculable domain of risk; in the secor
;"r-ap), we are dealing with uncertainty. Thi,
::ibuted to the chaos of the financial crisis in .
::rrases such as "the risk of hyperinflation is r
-:.,t to our equity position is y," start worn'inJ
To avoid hasty judgment, you must lear.
::3uity. This is a dilficult task and one rhar \
::-ce actively. Your amygdala plays a crucial rc
'::ed area in the middle of the brain responsil
:-imory and emotions. Depending on hou'i:
-. -erate uncertainty with greater ease or ditfrc
:.:rt not least in your political orientation: Ti:e
L-s to uncertainty, the more conservatitelr'r'o
:,- -:tical views have a partial biological unde-
Either way, whoever hopes to think clearlr-
-: = difrerence between risk and uncertainn-. (
i,::ls can we count on clear probabilities: casi
r:: probability textbooks. Often we are left r,
;*-:iguity. Learn to take it in stride.

