8t

WhyYou Go with the Status Quo

Default Effect

n a restaurant the other day I scanned the wine list in ie*-
peration. Irouldguy? Harslevelt? Susumaniello? I'm &r
from an expert, but I could tel1 that a sommelier was =r'

ing to prove his worldliness with these selections. On the -e-rc
page, I found redemption: "Our French house wine: R6srmt
du Patron, Bourgogne," ff52.I ordered it right away;it couii::
be that bad, I reasoned.

I've owned an iPhone for several years now. The gadger;-
lows me to customize everything-data usage, app synch::*
nization, phone encryption, even how loud I want the carntr:t
shutter to sound. How many of these have I set up so fari Y:ui
guessed it: not one.
In my defense, I'm not technically challenged. Rather fs.
just another victim of the so-called default efect. The detuu
setting is as warm and welcoming as a soft pillow, into u-hi;h.
we happily collapse. Just as I tend to stick with the house u-::r
and factory cell-phone settings, most people cling to the sia=
dard options. For example, new cars are often advertised ;- s
certain color; in every catalog, video, and ad, you see the ssm

:ar in the same color, although the car is a
-''f colors. The percentage of buyers who selr
:ar exceeds the percentage of car buyers rr
:icular color in the past. Many opt for the i
In their bookNudge, economist Richard
:issor Cass Sunstein illustrate how a go\.erl
--itizens without unconstitutionally restric
The authorities simply need to provide a tt
::rcluding a default choice for indecisir.e
:ow NewJersey and Pennsylvania presente,
:olicies to their inhabitants. The first poli
',,;aived certain rights to compensation shor_
:lace. New Jersey advertised this as the st
::ost people were happy to take it. In Penr
::re second, more expensive option was tou
:ad promptly became the bestseller. This o
::arkable, especially when you consider that
:.:nnot differ all that much in what ther- ,
.r'hat they want to pay.
Or consider this experiment: fhere is a
jonors. Only about 40 percent of people o
: ric Johnson and Dan Goldstein asked peo
:','ent of death, they wanted to activelr. op
:.rtion. Making donation the default optior
::om 40 percent to more than 80 percent or I
j:ference between an opt-in and an opt-oul
the defautt efect is at work even when r
-. mentioned. In such cases, we make our p
:::rg, thereby prolonging and sanctifying the
::ar.e what they know. Given the choice oi

