nith the Status Quo

-nt the other day I scanned the wine list in de.-
roul€guv? Harslevelti? Susumaniello? I'm :;
pen. but I could tell that a sommelier was tn-
r-orldliness with these selections. On the la;t
edemption: "Our French house wine: R6ser'"t
qoqne," $52.I ordered it right away;it coul,l:':
:asoned.
rn iPhone for several years now. The gadget i-
tomize everything-data usage, app synchr:-
: encn'ption, even how loud I want the came-
i. Horv many of these have I set up so far? Y:-:-

:)1e.
.=e. I'm not technically challenged. Rather, I':
rim of the so-called default efect. The deta'-
rm and welcoming as a soft pillow, into wh:;:
apse. Just as I tend to stick with the house rri:.,t
.-phone settings, most people cling to the sta:-
:or erample, new cars are often advertised ir I
n even'catalog, video, and ad, you see the n:w

R,olf ilobelli

car in the same color, although the car is available in a myriad
of colors. The percentage of buyers who select this default color
far exceeds the percentage ofcar buyers who bought this par-
ticular color in the past. Many opt for the default.
In their bookNudge, economist Richard Thaler and lawpro-
fessor cass Sunstein illustrate how a government can direct its
citizens without unconstitutionally restricting their freedom.
The authorities simply need to provide a few options-always
including a default choice for indecisive individuals. This is
how NewJersey and Pennsylvania presented two car-insurance
policies to their inhabitants. The first policy was cheaper but
-,vaived certain rights to compensation should an accident take
place. New Jersey advertised this as the standard option, and
most people were happy to take it. In Pennsylvania, however,
the second, more expensive option was touted as the standard
and promptly became the bestseller. This outcome is quite re-
markable, especially when you consider that both states' drivers
cannot differ all that much in what they want covered or in
,,vhat they want to pay.
Or consider this experiment: There is a shortage of organ
Jonors. Only about 40 percent of people opt for it. Scientists
Eric Johnson and Dan Goldstein asked people whether, in the
event of death, they wanted to actively opt out of organ do-
eation. Making donation the default option increased take-up
:iom 40 percent to more than 80 percent ofparticipants, a huge
lifference between an opt-in and an opt-out default.
the default ffict rs at work even when no standard option
:s mentioned. In such cases, we make our past the default set-
:ing, therebyprolonging and sanctifying the status quo. People
:rave what they know. Given the choice of trying something

243

