Tlee Art of Ylainking filearly

new or sticking to the tried-and-tested option, we tend to hc
highly conservative, even if a change would be beneficial. }h
bank, for example, charges an annual fee of $60 for mailing c';r
account statements. I could save myself this amount if I dorn-
loaded the statements online. However, though the pricer- i,,-,.
paPer-8'trzzling) service has bothered me for years, I still c.a::
bring myself to get rid of it once and for all.
So where does the "status-quo bias" come from? In aci
tion to sheer convenience, loss a,uersion plays a role. Recall r:m
losses upset us twice as much as similar gains please us. Fr
this reason, tasks such as renegotiating existing contracts Pr:'tt
very difficult. Regardless ofwhether these are private or pro:=*-
sional, each concession you make weighs twice as heary as ;:o
you receive, so such exchanges end up feeling like net losse="
Both the default effect and the status-quo bias reveal that're
have a strong tendency to cling to the way things are, eve: d
this puts us at a disadvantage. By changing the default sertrrq.
you can change human behavior.
"Maybe we live our lives according to some grand hidafm
default idea," I suggested to a dinner companion, hopin: r
draw him into a deep philosophical discussion. "Maybe it -.:m
needs a little time to develop," he said after tryrng the R6srrt
du Patron.

8X

Why "Last Chances" Make Us Panir
Fear of Regret

wo stories: Paul owns shares in co
the year, he considered selling thec:
in company B. In the end, he didn'

:hat if he had done so, he would have bee
-rnd story: George had shares in companr-B
:e sold them and bought shares in compair
.<nows that if he had stuck with B, he u-,r'-
-rtra $1,200. Who feels more regret?
Regret is the feeling of having maie
;ion. You wish someone would give vo*
InVhen asked who would feel worse, 8 peri,
.:id Paul, whereas 92 percent chose Geoi;
=:ed objectively, the situations are identr;
.Seorge were unlucky, picked the wrong si
-: pocket for the exact same amount. Tl
?:.ul already possessed the shares in -\.
:,r'int out and bought them. Paul u'as p:
::".-e. Paul embodies the majority-mos: '
:.Dney lying where it is for years-and (

