The Art ol Thrnking Clearly

the exception. It seems that whoever does not follow tl:t
crowd experiences more regret.
It is not always the one who acts who feels more regre:
Sometimes, choosing not to act can constitute an exceptio-.
An example: A venerable publishing house stands alone in ir
refusal to publish trendy e-books. Books are made of papr"
asserts the owner, and he will stick by this tradition. Shorro
afterward, ten publishers go bankrupt. Nine of them attemE:-
ed to launch e-book strategies and faltered. The final victi::
is the conventional paper-only publisher. Who will regret ir!:
series of decisions most, and who will gain the most sympathd
Right, the stoic e-grumbler.
Here is an example from Daniel Kahneman's book Thini"-
ing, Fast and Slovs: After every plane crash, we hear the stol-,
of one unlucky person who actually wanted to fly a day earlir
or later, but for some reason he changed his booking at the la-.:
minute. Since he is the exception, we feel more sympathr roi
him than for the other "normal" passengers who were booke,j
on the ili-fated flight from the outset.
\hefear of regret can make us behave irrationally. To dodsr
the terrible feeling in the pits of our stomachs, we tend to ac:
conservatively, so as not to deviate from the crowd too mucl
No one is immune to this, not even supremely self:confide-r
traders. Statistics show that each year on December 31 (D-da,
for performance reviews and bonus calculations), they tend ::
off-1oad their more exotic stocks and conform to the masse:-
Simllarly,fear of regret (and the endozument efect) prevents \-o-
from throwlng away things you no longer require. You a:t
aftaid of the remorse you will fedl in the unlikely event th-a:
you needed those worn-out tennis shoes after all.

246

the fear of regret becomes really irksom
ryith a "last chance" offer. A safari brochure
chance to see a rhino before the species is err
;ared about seeing one before today, why rvc
ivay to Tanzania to do so now? It is irrationa
Lett say you have long dreamed of ou,ni
rs becoming scarce. Only a handful of plots.
-eft. Three remain, then two, and now just
:hance! This thought racing through your he'
:uy the last plot at an exorbitant price. The-r
'.'ou into thinking this was a onetime oft-er
:eai estate with a lake view will always con
The sale of stunning property isnt going to s
-Last chances" make us panic-stricken, and ti
-i-erwhelm even the most hardheaded deal n

