'--'-= i-ieqt'lrr
''*- ^J


[t seems that whoever does not follow the

:ei more regret.
&1-: rhe one who acts who feels more regrel
o:i:rg not to act can constitute an exception"
r-enerable publishing house stands alone in it-=
:i rrendy e-books. Books are made of paper-
:r. and he will stick by this tradition. Shorth
r.rb'lishers go bankrupt. Nine of them attemPi-
r,rok strategies and faltered. The final victin:
nal paper-only publisher. Who will regret the
ri most, and who will gain the most sympathvi
e-gflrmbler.
xample from Daniel Kahneman's book Tltini-
;'*': -{fter every plane crash, we hear the ston-
Flerson who actually wanted to fly a day earlier
iome reason he changed his booking at the last
re is the exception, we feel more symPathy for
e other "normal" passengers who were booke'i
flieht from the outset.
S?r can make us behave irrationally. To dodge
he in the pits of our stomachs, we tend to act
!o as not to deviate from the crowd too much"
une to this, not even supremely self:confidenr
;-. shorv that each year on December 31 (D-dar
r reviews and bonus calculations), they tend to
aore exotic stocks and conform to the masses'
:.i r;gret (and the endovtntent ffict) ptevents you
a\rav things you no longer require. You are
:morse you will feel in the unlikely event'that
6e \\'orn-out tennis shoes after all.

H,olf 1]*b*iii

the fear af regret becomes really irksome when combined
rvith a "last chance" offer. A safari brochure promises "the last
chance to see a rhino before the species is extinct." If you never
cared about seeing one before today, why would you fly al1 the
way to Tanzania to do so now? It is irrational.
Let's say you have long dreamed of owning a house. Land
is becoming scarce. Only a handful of plots with sea views are
left. Three remain, then two, and now just one. It's your last
chance! This thought racing through your head, you give in and
buy the last plot at an exorbitant price. thefear of regret tricked
vou into thinking this was a onetime offer, when in reality,
real estate with a lake view will always come on the market.
The sale of stunning property isn't going to stop anytime soon.
-Last chances" make us panic-stricken, andthefear ofregret can
overwhelm even the most hardheaded deai makers.

247

