!.j.-irg Ciearly

: to th. tried-and-tested option, we tend to 're
.tive. even if a change would be beneficial. ][,
:ie. charges an annual fee of $60 for mailing c"=
:nts. I could save myself this amount if I dou:-
n:re:r.s online. However, though the pricer. (a:i:
] se;r-ice has bothered me for years, I still ca:-:
get rid ofit once and for all.
les :he *status-quo bias" come from? In adt-
nrerience, /oss a,uersion plays a role. Recall th;:
rrsice as much as similar gains please us. F:'r
i-. 'uch as renegotiating existing contracts Prol't
egardless ofwhether these are private or profe=-
uession vou make weighs twice as heary as a::-r-
ruch exchanges end up feeling like net losses.
iil: iect and the status-quo bias reveal that vr-e
:ndenn- to cling to the way things are, even l:
Cisadvantage. By changing the default setting.
hu:nan behavior.
lj,r'e our lives according to some grand hidde:
suqgested to a dinner companion, hoping r:
a deep philosophical discussion. "Maybe it ju::
ne to develop," he said after trying the R6sen-e

8X

Why "Last Chances" Make Us panic
Fear of R,egret

wo stories: Paul owns shares in company A. During
the year, he considered selling them and buying shares
in company B. In the end, he didnt. Today he knows

that if he had done so, he would have been up $1,200. Sec-
ond story: George had shares in company B. During theyear,
he sold them and bought shares in company A. Today he also
knows that if he had stuck with B, he would have netted an
extra $1,200. Who feels more regret?
Regret is the feeling of having made the wrong deci-
sion. You wish someone would give you a second chance.
When asked who would feel worse, 8 percent of respondents
said Paul, whereas 92 percent chose George. Why? Consid-
ered objectively, the situations are identical. Both Paul and
George were unlucky, picked the wrong stock, and were out
of pocket for the exact same amount. The only difference:
Paul already possessed the shares in A, whereas George
went out and bought them. Paul was passive, George ac-
tive. Paul embodies the majority-most people leave their
money lying where it is for years-and George represents

