aa

How Eye-Catching Details Render Us Blind
Salience Effect

magine the issue of marijuana has been dominating rlt
media for the past few months. Television programs po:-
tray potheads, clandestine growers, and dealers. The ta:-

loid press prints photos of twelve-year-old girls smoking joic=.
Broadsheets roll out the medical arguments and illuminate r-"''r
societal, even philosophical aspects of the substance. Marijua:r
is on everyone's lips. Let's assume for a moment that smolii:-e
does not affect driving in any way. Just as anyone can wind =
in an accident, a driver with a joint is also involved in a cra-i:
every now and then-purely coincidentally.

Kurt is a local journalist. One evening, he happens to dr:l't
past the scene of an accident. A car is wrapped around a rx
trunk. Since Kurt has a very good relationship with the 1o:"r-
police, he learns that they found marijuana in the backsear r
the car. He hurries back to the newsroom and writes this heai
line: "Marijuana Ki1ls Yet Another Motorist."
As stated above, we are assuming that the statistical re-r
tionship between marijuana urrd'.u, accidents is zero. Th:s*
Kurt's headline is unfounded. He has fallen victim to :ff

se/ience efect. Sa/ience refers to a prominent te;
attribute, a particularity, something that catcr
,a/ience efect enstres that outstanding fearu
nore attention than they deserve' Since marii
:-eature of this accident, Kurt believes that it
:he crash.
A few years later, Kurt moves into busines,
rf the largest companies in the worid has i':.
:romoting awoman to CEO. This is big nerr.
ris laptop and begins to write his commenta:
iuestion, he types, got the post simph'beca'
In truth, the promotion probably had nothin
ier, especially since men fill most top posir:
:nportant to have women as leaders, other
:ave acted by now. But in this news storl'. 3.
:!ature, and thus it earns undue weight.
Not only journalists fall prey to the sal!:'::
livo men rob a bank and are arrested shortl't-
:rat they are Nigerian. Although no ethnic
.:ble for a disproportionate number of bank
-i:nt fact distorts our thinking. Lawless imn::
.i-e think. If an Armenian commits rape, it :
'-\rmenians" rather than other factors that
-\mericans. Thus, prejudices form. That tl,
.:rmigrants live lawful lives is easily forgott,
::.11 the undesirable exceptions-they are :
llerefore, whenever immigrants are invoh'e;
:-:gative incidents that come to mind first'
7he salience efect influences not onlr- hor
::st but also how we imagine the future. I

