tehing Details Render Us Blind
ct

: issue of marijuana has been dominating tht
rire past few months. Television programs Po:-
rd=. clandestine growers, and dealers. fhe tar-
, photos of twelve-year-old girls smoking joinr-..
1 out the medical arguments and illuminate t::
rilo=ophical aspects of the substance. Marijua=
, Iips. Let's assume for a moment that smoki-
driving in any way. Just as anyone can wind =
.:. drir-er with a joint is also involved in a cra.'
rhen-purely coincidentally.
al iournalist. One evening, he happens to dr:-.'t
urt an accident. A car is wrapped around a tret
urt has a very good relationship with the loc;-
Ls that they found marijuana in the backseat :i
ri.es back to the newsroom and writes this heai
.a Kil1s Yet Another Motorist."
]-r\-e, we are assuming that the statistical re:-
rn marijuana and car accidents is zero. th::".
r is unfounded. He has falien victim to i-3

H,c1f Ilobe!1i

salience ffict. Salience refercto a prominent feature, a stand-out
attribute, a particularity, something that catches your eye. The
salience efect ensures that outstanding features receive much
more attention than they deserve. Since marijuana is the salient
feature of this accident, Kurt believes that it is responsible for
the crash.
A few years later, Kurt moves into business journaiism. One
of the largest companies in the world has just announced it is
promoting awoman to CEO. This is big news! Kurt snaps open
his laptop and begins to write his commentary: The woman in
question, he types, got the post simply because she is femaie.
In truth, the promotion probably had nothing to do with gen-
der, especially since men fill most top positions. If it were so
important to have women as leaders, other companies would
have acted by now. But in this news story, gender is the salient
feature, and thus it earns undue weight.
Not only journalists {allprey to the salience ffict.We a1l do.
Two men rob a bank and are arrested shortly aftetlttranspires
that they are Nigerian. Although no ethnic group is respon-
sible for a disproportionate number of bank robberies, this sa-
lient fact distorts our thinking. Lawless immigrants atit again,
,.ve think. If an Armenian commits rape, it is attributed to the
i\rmenians" rather than other factors that also exist among
-\mericans. Thus, prejudices form. That the vast majority of
immigrants live lawful lives is easily forgotten. We always re-
:a11 the undesirable exceptions-they are particulaf salient.
Therefore, whenever immigrants are involved, it is the striking,
:legative incidents that come to mind first.
the salience ffict infliences not only how we interpret the
:ast but also how we imagine the future. Daniel Kahneman

249

