?he Art *f Ti:inking Clearly

Two questions. YouVe worked hard for ayear. At the el:
of the twelve months, you have $20,000 more in your accoL:r
than you had at the beginning. What do you do? (a) Lear-e r
sitting in the bank. (b) Invest it. (c) Use it to make necesse--r
improvements, such as renovating your moldy kitchen or lt-
placing old tires. (d) Treat yourself to a luxury cruise. If r-:ri
think like most people, you'l1opt for A, B, or C.
Second question: You win $20,000 in the lottery. What a:
you do with it? Choose from A, B, C, or D above. Most peoorc
now take C or D. And of course, by doing so, they exh::m
flawed thinking. You can count it any way you like; $20,000 s
still$20,000.
We witness similar delusions in casinos. A friend plam+
$1,000 on the roulette table-and loses everything. \tr'le'
asked about this, he says: "I didn't really gamble away a tho-r-
sand dollars. I won all that eadier." "But it's the same amous:.'
"Not for me," he says, laughing.
We treat money that we win, discover, or inherit muc:
more frivolously than hard-earned cash. The economist Rici
ard Thaler ca1ls this the house-n'roney efect.It leads us to u'r:
bigger risks and, for this reason, many lottery winners ei
up worse off after they've cashed in their winnings. That or:
platitude-win some, lose some-is a feeble attempt to dovr=
play real losses.
Thaler divided his students into two groups. The first grory
learned they had won $30 and could choose to take part in t:E
following coin toss: If itwas tails, theywouldwin $9.If hea&
they would lose $9. Seventy percent of students opted to risk i
The second group learned they hal won nothing but that thrr
could choose between receiving $30 or taking part in a coir

252

toss in which heads won them $21 and tail:
second group behaved more conservativelr-.
were prepared to gamble-even though the
both options was the same: $30.
Marketing strategists recognize the usetu
mzney fficL Onhne gambling sites "rewar(
credit when you sign up. Credit card compar
rvhen you fillin the application form. Airline
a few thousand miles when you join their ti
Phone companies give you free call credit
tomed to making lots of calls. A large part o:
.tems from the house-money ffict.
In conclusion: Be careful if you win m,
ness gives you something for free. Chances
:ackwith interest out of sheer exuberance. It
:rovocative clothes from this seeminglr'fret
',r'orkmen's gear. Put it in your bank account
:,\vn company.

