:s::tg Clearly


n:. \bu'r,e worked hard for a year. At the eni
o:iths. r'ou have $20,000 more in your accour:
rhe beginning. What do you do? (a) Leave i:
L:r-k. ,b) Invest it. (c) Use it to make necessarl-
;uch as renovating your moldy kitchen or re-
i- i: Treat yourself to a luxury cruise. If rou
;'eopie, ).ou'11 opt for A, B, or C.
rior: \bu win $20,000 in the lottery. What do
lhoose from A, B, C, or D above. Most people
D. .lnd of course, by doing so, they exhibi:
. trbu can count it any way you like; $20,000 L

=irnilar delusions in casinos. A friend place.
roulette table-and loses everything. When
," he savs: "I didnt really gamble away a thou-
on all that earlier." "But it's the same amount:"
: sar-s, laughing.
rne'r- that we win, discover, or inherit much
:han hard-earned cash. The economist Rich-
riris the house-money efect. It leads us to take
i" tirr this reason, many lottery winners end
:er ther''ve cashed in their winnings. That old
'orne, lose some-is a feeble attempt to down-

d his students into two groups. The first grouf
Iu-on S30 and could choose to take part in the
xs: If itwas tails, theywouldwin $9.If heads.
$9. Seventypercent ofstudents opted to riskit.
rp, learned they had won nothing but that ihev
'tr\reen receiving $30 or taking part in a coin

H,*1fi X)*?:elli

toss in which heads won them $21 and tails secured $39. The
second group behaved more conservatively. Only 43 percent
were prepared to gamble-even though the expected value for
both options was the same: $30.
Marketing strategists recognize the usefulness of the house-
rnonq) ffict. Online gambling sites "reward" you with $100
credit when you sign up. Credit card companies offer the same
when you fill in the application form. Airlines present you with
a few thousand miles when you join their frequent-flier clubs.
Phone companies give you free call credit to get you accus-
tomed to making lots of calls. A large part of the covpol craze
stems from the house-money ffict.
In conclusion: Be careful if you win money or if a busi-
ness gives you something for free. Chances are you will pay \t
back with interest out of sheer exuberance. It's better to tear the
provocative clothes from this seemingly free money. Put it in
workmen's gear. Put it in your bank account or back into your
own comPany.

253

