r's Resolutions Don't Work
)I]

a r-riter, someone who knows how to capture
n in sentences-let's call him an artist-writes
: ircoks of about a hundred pages every seven
r is rhe equivalent of two lines of print per dar-.
mt his miserable productivity, he says: ,,Re-
=o much more enjoyable than writing.,, So he
r-uting the Web for hours on end or immersed
:u-.e books-all in the hope of hitting upon a
aoften story. Once he has found suitable in-
rinces himself that there is no point starting
*riqht mood." Unfortunately, the right mood
ce.
d has tried to quit smoking every day for the
ach cigarette is his last. And me? My tax re-
h-ing on my desk for six months, waiting to
har-en't yet given up hope that they will fill

r is the tendency to delay unpleasant but
he arduous trek to the gym, switching to a

Rolf $*1:etr}i

cheaper insurance policy, writing thank-you letters. Even New
Year's resolutions won't help you here.
Procrastinatioz is idiotic because no project completes itself.
We know that these tasks are beneficial, so why do we keep
pushing them onto the back burner? Because of the time lapse
between sowing and reaping. To bridge it requires a high de-
gree of mental energy, as psychologist Roy Baumeister dem-
onstrated in a clever experiment. He put students in front of
an oven in which chocolate cookies were baking. Their deli-
cious scent wafted around the room. He then placed a bowl
fi1led with radishes by the oven and told the students that they
could eat as many of these as they wanted, but the cookies were
strictly out of bounds. He then left the students alone in the
room for thirty minutes. Students in a second group were al-
lowed to eat as many cookies as they wanted. Afterward, both
groups had to solve a tough math problem. The students who
were forbidden to eat any cookies gave up on the math prob-
lem twice as fast as those who were allowed to gorge freely on
cookies. The period of selFcontrol had drained their mental
energy-or willpower-which they now needed to solve the
problem. Willpower is like abatterg at least in the short term.
If it is depleted, future challenges will falter.
This is a fundamental insight. SelFcontrol is not available
around the clock. It needs time to refuel. The good news: To
achieve this, al1 you need to do is refill your blood sugar and
kick back and relax.
Though eating enough and giving yourself breaks is im-
portant, the next necessary condition is employin g an array of
tricks to keep you on the straight and narrow. This includes
eliminating distractions. When I write a novel, I turn off my

255

