E5

Why NewYear's Resolutions Don't Work
Procrastination

friend, a writer, someone who knows how to capru-
emotion in sentences-|s1's call him an artist-rvrii*i
modest books of about a hundred pages every se\-e:

years. His output is the equivalent of two lines of print per da",.
When asked about his miserable productivity, he says: "Re-
searching is just so much more enjoyable than writing." So re
sits at his desk, surfing the Web for hours on end or immersej
in the most abstruse books-all in the hope of hitting upon .e
magnificent, forgotten story. Once he has found suitable h-
spiration, he convinces himself that there is no point starti:;
until he is in the "right mood." Unfortunately, the right moo:
is a rare occurrence.
Another friend has tried to quit smoking every day for tht
past ten years. Each cigarette is his last. And me? My tax re-
turns have been lying on my desk for six months, waiting r:
be completed. I haven't yet given up hope that they will i*
themselves in.
Procrastination is the tendenc'y to delay unpleasant b,::
important acts: the arduous trek to the gym, switching to a

;heaper insurance policy, writing thank-you I
Year's resolutions won't help you here.
Procrastination rs rdiotic because no projec
\Ve know that these tasks are beneficial, so
:ushing them onto the back burner? Because
ietween sowing and reaping. To bridge it re,
tree of mental energy, as psychologist Ror- -
rnstrated in a clever experiment. He put st..:
:n oven in which chocolate cookies were ba
:ious scent wafted around the room. He thi
:lled with radishes by the oven and told the s
:,:u1d eat as many of these as they wanted, but
':rictly out of bounds. He then left the stud
:rom for thirty minutes. Students in a secon
- rrved to eat as many cookies as they wanted.
i:oups had to solve a tough math problem. 1
'rere forbidden to eat afiy cookies gave up or
":n twice as fast as those who were allorved t
- --,okies. The period of selFcontrol had drai:
:lergy-or willpower-which they no\l' nee
::rblem. Willpower is like abattery, ar ieasr:
-: it is depleted, future challenges will falter.
This is a fundamental insight. Self:contr.-
i::und the clock. It needs time to refuel. Ti:
;::rieve this, all you need to do is refill r-our
t-:k back and relax.
Though eating enough and giving \-our:i
t,-:tzrtr the next necessary condition is enp-
:-:ks to keep you on the straight and na::,:
:'ninating distractions. When I write a n,r."'

