Thought and Character(（人的）品質；性格；（事物的）性質；特性)

The aphorism(格言；警句；箴言), "As a man thinketh in his heart so is he," not only embraces(包括，包含) the whole of a man's being, but is so comprehensive(廣泛的；無所不包的；綜合的) as to reach out to every condition and circumstance(情況，環境；情勢) of his life. A man is literally(實在地，不加誇張地) what he thinks, his character being the complete sum of all his thoughts.

As the plant springs(迅速生長) from, and could not be without, the seed, so every act of a man springs from the hidden seeds of thought, and could not have appeared without them. This applies equally to those acts called "spontaneous(自發的；非出於強制的)" and "unpremeditated(無預謀的；偶然的)" as to those which are deliberately(慎重地；謹慎地) executed(實施，實行；執行；履行).

Act is the blossom(發展成) of thought, and joy and suffering are its fruits; thus does a man garner(獲得) in the sweet and bitter(有苦味的，苦的) fruitage(成果；成效；結果) of his own husbandry(管理).

    "Thought in the mind hath made us. What we are
    By thought we wrought and built. If a man's mind
    Hath evil thoughts, pain comes on him as comes
    The wheel the ox behind . . . 

    ..If one endure
    In purity of thought, joy follows him
    As his own shadow -- sure."

Man is a growth by law, and not a creation by artifice(奸計；詭計), and cause and effect is as absolute(絕對的) and undeviating(不迷失的；未離正道的) in the hidden realm(【書】王國；國土，領土) of thought as in the world of visible and material things. A noble(高貴的，高尚的，崇高的) and Godlike character is not a thing of favor or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long-cherished association with Godlike thoughts. An ignoble(卑鄙的；不光彩的；可恥的) and bestial(殘忍的) character, by the same process, is the result of the continued harboring(懷著) of groveling(卑躬屈節的，卑下的) thoughts.

Man is made or unmade by himself; in the armory(軍械庫) of thought he forges(打（鐵等）；鍛造) the weapons(武器) by which he destroys(毀壞，破壞) himself; he also fashions(製作；使成形；形成；把……塑造成) the tools with which he builds for himself heavenly mansions(大廈，大樓) of joy and strength and peace. By the right choice and true application(應用，適用；運用) of thought, man ascends(登高；上升) to the Divine(神的，神性的) Perfection; by the abuse(濫用，妄用) and wrong application of thought, he descends(下來，下降) below the level of the beast. Between these two extremes(末端的，盡頭的) are all the grades of character, and man is their maker and master.

Of all the beautiful truths pertaining(從屬，附屬) to the soul which have been restored and brought to light in this age, none is more gladdening(使高興，使歡喜) or fruitful(富有成效的；收益好的) of divine(非凡的，天才的) promise and confidence than this - that man is the master of thought, the molder of character, and maker and shaper of condition, environment, and destiny.

As a being(存在；生存；生命) of Power, Intelligence(智能；智慧；理解力), and Love, and the Lord of his own thoughts, man holds the key to every situation, and contains within himself that transforming and regenerative(恢復的；新生的) agency by which he may make himself what he wills.

Man is always the master, even in his weakest(最弱的) and most abandoned(被放棄的；被遺棄的) state; but in his weakness and degradation(墮落；丟臉) he is the foolish master who misgoverns(對……施行惡政；對……治理不善) his household. When he begins to reflect(思考，反省) upon his condition, and to search diligently(勤勉地；勤奮地) for the Law upon which his being is established(已建立的；已確立的；已制定的), he then becomes the wise master, directing his energies with intelligence, and fashioning his thoughts to fruitful issues(內容). Such is the conscious(神志清醒的，有知覺的) master, and man can only thus become by discovering(發現) within himself the laws of thought; which discovery is totally a matter of application, self-analysis, and experience.

Only by much searching and mining(採礦；礦業) are gold an diamonds obtained, and man can find every truth connected with his being if he will dig(發掘，探究) deep into the mine of his soul; and that he is the maker of his character, the moulder(模具; 模子) of his life, and the builder of his destiny, he may unerringly(沒錯地，準確地) prove(證明，證實), if he will watch, control, and alter(改變) his thoughts, tracing their effects upon himself, upon others, and upon his life and circumstances, linking(正在連接,連接) cause and effect by patient practice and investigation(研究；調查), and utilizing his every experience, even to the most trivial(瑣細的；不重要的；無價值的), everyday occurrence(發生；出現), as a means of obtaining that knowledge of himself which is Understanding, Wisdom(智慧，才智，明智), Power. In this direction, as in no other, is the law absolute(純粹的；完全的) that "He that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened"; for only by patience, practice, and ceaseless(不停的，不間斷的) importunity(硬要；強求) can a man enter the Door of the Temple(（古代希臘，羅馬，埃及等的）神殿，聖堂) of Knowledge.


abandoned 被放棄的；被遺棄的 
absolute 純粹的；完全的 絕對的 
abuse 濫用，妄用 
alter 改變 
aphorism 格言；警句；箴言 
application 應用，適用；運用 
armory 軍械庫 
artifice 奸計；詭計 
ascends 登高；上升 
being 存在；生存；生命 
bestial 殘忍的 
bitter 有苦味的，苦的 
blossom 發展成 
ceaseless 不停的，不間斷的 
character （人的）品質；性格；（事物的）性質；特性 
circumstance 情況，環境；情勢 
comprehensive 廣泛的；無所不包的；綜合的 
conscious 神志清醒的，有知覺的 
degradation 墮落；丟臉 
deliberately 慎重地；謹慎地 
descends 下來，下降 
destroys 毀壞，破壞 
dig 發掘，探究 
diligently 勤勉地；勤奮地 
discovering 發現 
divine 神的，神性的 非凡的，天才的 
embraces 包括，包含 
established 已建立的；已確立的；已制定的 
executed 實施，實行；執行；履行 
extremes 末端的，盡頭的 
fashions 製作；使成形；形成；把……塑造成 
forges 打（鐵等）；鍛造 
fruitage 成果；成效；結果 
fruitful 富有成效的；收益好的 
garner 獲得 
gladdening 使高興，使歡喜 
groveling 卑躬屈節的，卑下的 
harboring 懷著 
husbandry 管理 
ignoble 卑鄙的；不光彩的；可恥的 
importunity 硬要；強求 
intelligence 智能；智慧；理解力 
investigation 研究；調查 
issues 內容 
linking 正在連接,連接 
literally 實在地，不加誇張地 
mansions 大廈，大樓 
mining 採礦；礦業 
misgoverns 對……施行惡政；對……治理不善
moulder 模具; 模子 
noble 高貴的，高尚的，崇高的 
occurrence 發生；出現 
pertaining 從屬，附屬 
prove 證明，證實 
realm 【書】王國；國土，領土 
reflect 思考，反省 
regenerative 恢復的；新生的 
spontaneous 自發的；非出於強制的 
springs 迅速生長
temple （古代希臘，羅馬，埃及等的）神殿，聖堂 
trivial 瑣細的；不重要的；無價值的 
undeviating 不迷失的；未離正道的 
unerringly 沒錯地，準確地 
unpremeditated 無預謀的；偶然的 
weakest 最弱的 
weapons 武器 
wisdom 智慧，才智，明智 


